Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 6/13/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: Millcreek of Arkansas
Facility Name: Millcreek of Arkansas
Facility Number: 187
Incident Type: Dual
Report Description: AV is AO is Unknown Unknown-One (age
unknown), who is a staff member at Mill Creek Behavioral Health. has been at
Millcreek since 2019 for mental health. He has
. Since December 2022 until now, there have been 6 or more phone calls from staff
stating has been injured due to an altercation. This past weekend, (6/10 ? 6/11), a
nurse reported tried to run away, and the AO tried stopping him. AO "accidentally"
kneed in the mouth. The caller believes that something more may be going on at the
facility and doesn't understand how a staff person's knee could accidentally make it's way to
the child's mouth. It is believed that AV does have injuries but the exact level of injury is
unknown.
Interim Action Narrative:
Maltreatment Narrative: Ref# AV is AO is Unknown
Unknown-One (age unknown), who is a staff member at Mill Creek Behavioral Health.
Isaiah has been at Millcreek since 2019 for mental health. He has
. Since December 2022 until now, there have been 6 or more phone calls
from staff stating has been injured due to an altercation. This past weekend, (6/10 ?
6/11), a nurse reported tried to run away, and the AO tried stopping him. AO
"accidentally" kneed in the mouth. The caller believes that something more may be
going on at the facility and doesn't understand how a staff person's knee could accidentally
make it's way to the child's mouth. It is believed that AV does have injuries but the exact
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

level of injury is unknown. Received email 7/13/23 that Maltreatment Report was
unfounded.
Licensing Narrative: Recieved Maltreatment Complaint notification 6/13/23 as follows: AV
is AO is Unknown Unknown-One (age unknown), who is a staff
member at Mill Creek Behavioral Health. Isaiah has been at Millcreek since 2019 for mental
health. He has . Since December 2022 until
now, there have been 6 or more phone calls from staff stating has been injured due to
an altercation. This past weekend, (6/10 ? 6/11), a nurse reported tried to run away,
and the AO tried stopping him. AO "accidentally" kneed in the mouth. The caller
believes that something more may be going on at the facility and doesn't understand how a
staff person's knee could accidentally make it's way to the child's mouth. It is believed that
AV does have injuries but the exact level of injury is unknown. Phone call made by licensing
to facility 6/13/23 to confirm that client resides at Millcreek of Arkansas
Residential Oak Creek. Facility visited 6/14/23 in response to complaint that U/K staff had
injured client Licensing met Lasonya Goffin, , at Oak Creek
Residential House of Millcreek. was interviewed. When asked client reported that he
liked everything about Millcreek. reported that he had never been hit nor kicked by staff
at Millcreek. was asked about recent events, last weekend. was asked again if he was
hit or kicked "no". was asked what happened "I ran...I got mad...staff chased me...put
me back on unit...that's it...I told my Dad I had bad behavior". was asked again, and
denied ever being hit by staff. Gary Sneed, Millcreek ICF Program Director, consulted who
stated that at no time was unsupervised during this event. never made it off Oak
Creek property, making it to the trash cans at the end of the yard line. At no time during the
interview with today did indicate he successfully eloped from Oak Creek. Received
email 7/13/23 that Maltreatment Report was unfounded.