Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 11/7/2023
Date Received by DCCECE:11/8/2023
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report 1 for DOB: Private
placement client in our PRTF program and resides in Mabee House. Incident Report
date/time: 11/07/23 1:16pm Location of Incident: Mabee House Incident Description:
Threat to Safety Staff Involved: Anthony White, Joseph Davis, Jacqueline Wheeler Events
Leading: Client escalated for no apparent reason, or reasons she can't or won't express.
Client observed in the seclusion area, on her on volition, slamming her head into the walls
of the seclusion room with varying force. Staff present offering support. After a short time,
client exited this area, and ran down the hall. There client was observed to slam her wrists
and arms, and fists into the wall around her. Client ignored support given by staff. After
prompting from several staff, client continued these behaviors. 1:16pm Personal Restraint:
Client restrained for safety. Client physically resisted against restraint. Client observed to
attempt to slam her head into the wall behind her, prompting staff to attempt to buffer with
their arms. Client vehemently protested against this. Client aggressively grabbed at staff's
clothing, and spit on staff's arms. Client given verbal support and remind that as she's able
to relax, staff will be able to relax the hold on her as she's being safe. This cycle continued
for several minutes. 1:20pm: Personal Restraint End: Client began relaxing her posture and
staff was able to relax the hold on her. Restraint ended at this time. Patient Debriefing
date/time: 11/07/23 1:30pm: Client given support and asked to reach out in the future and
to be safe. Nursing Assessment date/time: 11/07/23 2:10pm: Client upset due to family
session. Client admits that she feels as though there "is too much on my plate". Upon my
arrival, client was banging on the walls of front seclusion room. Client banged head on the
unlocked seclusion room door. Client required personal restraint due to threat to safety.
Client was encouraged to calm down and do the next right thing multiple times. Client
began to show signs of calming and was released. Client went down hallway and required
personal restraint to prevent injury. Here is where client again hit hand on wall. Client
complains of right hand pain, given icepack and ibuprofen x 2. Client has full/active ROM
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

with pain 9/10, capillary refill <3 seconds, area reddened, no other discoloration noted.
Encouraged client to rest, ice, ibuprofen and elevate it. Client denies numbness/tingling,
PERRLA, no swelling noted to head, no hematoma detected. No other needs identified
now, will continue to monitor. Guardian was notified by nurse on 11/07/23 at 2:39pm
Injuries to staff or client: Client complains of right hand pain Follow-up to injuries: given
icepack and ibuprofen x 2. Actions to prevent injuries: Client refraining from punching
things. Additional comments: Client is becoming a concern for this Unit Manager. She
requires so much attention and resources to the extent that the other clients in the house are
excluded from various things at any given time. It is this Manager's thoughts that this client
is not appropriate for this setting as it stands, and other services should be considered.
Incident Report 2 Date/time: 11/07/23 1:57pm Location of incident: Mabee House Incident
Description: Self Injury (Not Suicidal), Threat to Safety Staff Involved: Anthony White,
Joseph Davis, Anthony Mask, Melissa Rhude Events Leading: Following previous incident,
client sat in seclusion area attempting to calm. Client began slamming her head into the
wall of the seclusion room with varying force. Attempts to redirect client were unsuccessful.
As staff attempted to place their hands between the wall and her head, client became
combative. 1:57pm: Personal Restraint: Client placed in restraint. Nurse restricted her arms
as she attempted to strike staff attempting to prevent client from hurting herself. 1:58pm:
Personal Restraint End: Client broke free from restraint. Staff attempting de-escalation and
redirection for behaviors. Attempts unsuccessful. 1:59pm: Other/None: Staff attempting to
attend to client's need. Client unable to voice them; insists on harming self slamming head
on door. 2:00pm: Personal Restraint: Client restrained. Client combative with staff and
resisting against restraint. staff continue de-escalation and redirection. 2:01pm: Personal
Restraint End: Client broke free as staff continue de-escalation and redirection. Client
resumes head slamming. 2:02pm: Personal Restraint: Client restrained. Client combative
with staff and resisting against restraint. staff continue de-escalation and redirection.
2:03pm: Personal Restraint End: Client broke free as staff continue de-escalation and
redirection. Client resumes head slamming. 2:04pm: Other/None: Client sitting in seclusion
area as staff continue verbal de-escalation. Client resumes head banging and ignores
redirection from staff. 2:05pm: Personal Restraint: Client restrained. She physically resisted
and attempted to thrash and slam her body about. Staff offered verbal support. Client
offered medication by mouth to help her calm. Client declined. Client continued to thrash
about and become tearful as staff offered verbal support. 2:12pm: Personal Restraint End:
Client began to calm and was no long combative. She sat quietly as staff talked with her.
Restraint ended at this time. Client slapped the walls of the seclusion room door and began
slamming her head into the wall again. Client ignored prompting and redirection to stop.
2:13pm: Personal Restraint: Client restrained. Client thrashed her body and screamed
throughout. Client offered verbal support. Nursing approached with IM medication. 2:15pm
Chemical Restraint: Nursing administered shot to client at this time. 2:16pm: Personal
Restraint End: Client tearful and no longer resisting against restraint. Restraint ended at
this time. Patient Debriefing date/time: 11/07/23 2:25pm: Time spent talking with client
about how she could have handled the situation differently. Nursing Assessment date/time:
11/07/23 2:25pm: Client upset due to family session. Client admits that she feels as though
there "is too much on my plate". Upon my arrival, client was banging on the walls of front

seclusion room. Client banged head on the unlocked seclusion room door. Client required
personal restraint due to threat to safety. Client was encouraged to calm down and do the
next right thing multiple times. Client began to show signs of calming and was released.
Client went down hallway and required personal restraint to prevent injury. Here is where
client again hit hand on wall. Client complains of right hand pain, given icepack and
ibuprofen x 2. Client has full/active ROM with pain 9/10, capillary refill <3 seconds, area
reddened, no other discoloration noted. Encouraged client to rest, ice, ibuprofen and elevate
it. Client denies numbness/tingling, PERRLA, no swelling noted to head, no hematoma
detected. No other needs identified now, will continue to monitor. Chemical restraint
administered per nursing. Client showing signs of calming. Client in good spirits around
6pm, client had positive sounding telephone conversation with guardian. Awaiting transport
to acute placement. Guardian notified on 11/07/23 at 2:39pm was transported to
Rivendell for an acute stay on 11/07/23 during the evening shift. She remains at Rivendell at
this time.
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was restrained for safety, assessed by the nurse, and
place in acute care.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing Specialist reviewed provider reported incident for licensing
concerns. Licensing Specialist will inquire if resident will be returning to the facility and
documentation for chemical restraint. Licensing Specialist informed that it is unknown at
this time if resident will be returning to the facility.