e
Pulaski County
Office of the Sheriff
Eric S. Higgins, Sheriff
2900 S. Woodrow Street, Little Rock, AR 72204
Tel: (501) 340-6600

Case P25-000858 Printed on February 20, 2025

Status Approved
Report Type Patrol
Primary Officer Lance Parker
Investigator None
Records Technician
Reported At 01/28/25 23:00
Incident Date 01/28/25 23:00
Incident Code BATT : BATTERY
Location 20400 COLONEL GLENN RD, LITTLE ROCK, AR 72210
2
Southwest

Disposition CA- Cleared by Arrest
Disposition Date/Time 01/29/25 01:11
Disposition Comments

bs#2495
Review for Gang Activity Not Applicable

Primary Narrative By Lance Parker, 01/29/25 01:16
Battery

On 1/28/25 at approximately 2305 hours |, Deputy L. Parker, responded to the Chestnut House at the youth services
home located at 20400 Colonel Glenn Road in reference to a disturbance. Upon arrival | made contact with the
complainant, Dejuan Williams, who is a Qualified Behavioral Health Provider (QBHP) for the youth home. Williams
advised that just prior to our arrival he was involved in an altercation with a resident minor,

Williams advised that got very angry with him this evening when he came into _— room. He advised that he
was attempting to take two water bottles away from after grabbed them and took a fighting stance
against Williams. Williams advised that when he attempted to take the bottles struck him in the back of his
head with a closed fist and then grabbed a handful of his hair and refused to let go; Williams believed that he may have
had some hair pulled out but was unable to locate his hair on the floor at this time. There was a light spot on his head
in the area he pointed to where the hair was grabbed. Williams advised that he and several other workers at the youth
home had to pry __.. . fingers/hand open in order to get him to release his hair. Williams refused medical
attention at this time but advised he wishes to pursue charges against

| then made contact with who advised a similar story. | stated that _ was angry at Williams for trying to
take things from _roomand — grabbedhishair. _ advisedthat _ left hand was sore from where staff had to force

hand open to get to release William's hair. There was visible redness on left hand. | spoke with
another QBHP that was present during the incident and witnessed the altercation, Diana Coleman. Coleman advised a
similar recount as Williams in that she saw take an aggressive stance holding two hard plastic water bottles
filled with water like | was about to use them against Williams. Coleman then observed as Williams took the water
bottles away from and then .._ struck Williams in the back of the head and grabbed his hair. She advised
that it took several staff members prying hand open before _finally released William's hair.

| was informed by the staff that MEMS was already on the way to the scene to transport to Rivendell. |
contacted the Juvenile Intake Officer, Elizabeth Mahan, and apprised her of the situation; | advised her that | am
looking to charge with Battery 2nd due to _— causing injury to a professional worker for Youth Services.
Mrs. Mahan advised to issue a court date to February 27, 2025 at 1000 hours. | completed an ADR for

Case P25-000858 Page 1 of 2


Battery 2nd and provided with — copy containing said court date. A copy of the ADR and photographs
were attached to this report to be used as evidence. The original ADR was submitted to records for dissemination to
the proper channels.

MEMS 625 arrived on scene. | apprised them of the situation and requested they conduct an assessment on __. mental
well-being due to the caller advising to dispatch that was feeling "homicidal" toward staff. | also requested
they check for injuries following the altercation. was cleared by MEMS to be transported to Rivendell;
was loaded onto the ambulance and transported without further incident. | provided the staff at the Chestnut House

with — report number and advised them to contact the Sheriff's Office if they have any further questions. Staff advised
there are cameras in the building, however, the one nearest to room would likely be unable to see much
of the incident. They advised me that they could not access cameras at this time, but may be able to provide camera
footage at a later date.

| was advised by staff that with Nevada County DHS. Her
information and phone number are attached to this report as requested by Mrs. Mahan so that she can be made aware
of this situation.

CFS: 2025-06184

Case P25-000858 Page 2 of 2