October 5, 2023
Delta Family Health and Fitness – Center for Children
815 E Saint Louis St
Hamburg, AR 71646-2766
The Division of Provider Services and Quality Assurance (DPSQA) of the Arkansas Department of Human
Services has contracted with Arkansas Foundation for Medical Care (AFMC) to perform Inspections of Care
(IOC) for Inpatient Psychiatric Services for Under 21. The Medicaid Manual for Inpatient Psychiatric Services
for Under Age 21 was used in the completion of this report.
Observations and any deficiencies noted are listed below for the inspection conducted at the following service
site on the following date:
Delta Family Health and Fitness – Center for Children
Provider Medicaid ID:
Onsite Inspection Date: October 02, 2023
Onsite Inspection Time: 12:05 PM
A summary of the inspection and any deficiencies noted are outlined below.
Inspection of Care Summary
Facility Tour:
Upon arrival to the facility, AFMC staff was promptly greeted at the main entrance by a Delta Family Health
and Fitness – Center for Children facility staff member. AFMC staff were checked in at the front desk and were
taken to a conference room and met by the Assistant Administrator. AFMC staff was given the completed and
signed consent form listing approval for access to the AFMC portal.
A tour of the facility was completed with the Security Officer of the residential unit. The facility was noted to be
clean and free of clutter. AFMC staff observed several areas of minor damage to walls and floors on the client
units, but no safety concerns were noted. Educational classes were in session. Several staff members were
observed calmly interacting with clients throughout the facility.
Facility Review – Policies and Procedures:
Upon review of the site’s policies, procedures, and certification requirements, there were no deficiencies noted.
Personnel Records – Licenses, Certifications, Training:
There was a total of eight personnel record(s) reviewed, three (30%) professional and five (26%)
paraprofessional. There were no deficiencies noted during the personnel record review.
Observations:
AFMC staff reviewed the final document request form with the Assistant Administrator, the Director of
Nursing, and the Human Resource Director at the completion of the on-site Inspection of Care. The provider
signed the acknowledgement of manual requirements that were made available in the provider’s policy and
procedures. AFMC staff explained that these findings were preliminary and there was still an off-site portion to
be completed.

Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality-of-Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list was
requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was completed. The
following is a summary of findings and noted deficiencies.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
There were no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no client
interviews were conducted.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
AFMC staff reviewed the final document request form with the Chief Executive Office, the Chief Operations
Officer, and the Risk Manager at the completion of the on-site Inspection of Care. The provider signed the
acknowledgement of manual requirements that were made available in the provider’s policy and
procedures. AFMC staff explained that these findings were preliminary and there was still an off-site portion to
be completed.
Medication Pass:
No active FFS Medicaid clients received medications during a medication pass while AFMC staff was onsite.
Due to the observation of non-Medicaid clients not being compliant with the HIPAA minimal necessary rule, no
medication pass was observed. AFMC RN visited with the facility medication nurse who was able to show
AFMC RN the facility policies and procedures regarding medication administration, narcotic
count/reconciliation/handling, and medication discrepancies.
Facility nurse was able to verbalize the step-by-step process of medication delivery including the demonstration
of the five rights of medication administration, documentation of medication delivery, verification of client
taking medication including mouth/cheek checks, and how clients are educated about each medication. Facility
nurses also verbalized the process utilized when a client refuses medications. The tour of the medication room
was completed and secure storage of medications including narcotics was the only issue noted.
AFMC staff did note that the facility’s medication policy titled MP5 did state, “All controlled substances are
kept double locked in the medication room or in medication cart stored medication room.” AFMC staff did
discuss with facility administration regarding this policy is not being followed in the practice of the security of
narcotics. Currently, the facility houses the medication cart in the centrally located unlocked workstation where
unauthorized staff and clients may have access to the medication cart. AFMC staff noted several staff members
who are not authorized to have access to medications gaining access into the unlocked workstation during the
inspection to complete various work-related tasks. AFMC staff voiced concern that even though the cart was
locked during inspection if nurse failed to lock the medication cart and walked away that all medications
including narcotics would be unsecure. The facility does have a medication room next to the open nurses’
station but currently the only medications that are stored in the medication room are refrigerated medications.
Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
There were no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, there were no
clinical record reviews conducted.
Delta Family Health and Fitness – Center for Children – Hamburg, AR – IOC Report 2 | P ag e

Respectfully,
Inspection of Care Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
Delta Family Health and Fitness – Center for Children – Hamburg, AR – IOC Report 3 | P ag e