521 Visit Compliance Report

Licensee: Perimeter of the Ozarks

Facility Number: 237

Licensee Address: 2466 SOUTH 48TH STREET
SPRINGDALE AR 72766

Licensing Specialist: Michele Sutton
Person In Charge: Ana Salazar
Record Visit Date: 1/19/2023

Home Visit Date: 1/19/2023

ARKANSAS
) DEPARTMENT OF

> HUMAN
~a' SERVICES
Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.508.8910 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550

Purpose of Visit: Self Report Visit;Subsequent Building and Grounds

Regulations Out of Compliance:

Regulations Needing Technical Assistance:

Regulation Number: 9. 910. 1

Regulation Description: The grounds of the facility shall be kept clean and free of safety hazards.

Findings Description:

Action Due Date:

Action Due Description:
Comply Date:

Sub Regulation Description:
Regulation Number: 9. 909. 8

Regulation Description: The facility shall ensure each child in care is provided with opportunities for regular

recreational activities and exercise.

Findings Description:

www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year

Page 1 of 3


Action Due Date:
Action Due Description:
Comply Date:

Sub Regulation Description:

Regulation Not Applicable:

Regulations Not Correctable:

Narrative:

Unannounced licensing visit completed this date. Licensing specialist followed up on several self-reported
incidents, completed a buildings and grounds, and spoke with residents involved in serious occurrences over
the weekend involving peer-to-peer sexual touching.

Buildings and Grounds: CEO stated there are plans to renovate the mileu area of the facility--re-painting
walls, adding inspirational messages, and adding wallpaper around nurse's station. All units in ratio (blue--in
cafeteria at time of visit--2:8, orange--4:9, green 2:10, milieu 2:1). 5 MARS were reviewed with no
locked per regulatory requirements.

Viewed all units. Repairs have been made to room 201. No broken pieces of wood noted on baseboards or
doorframes of any unit, no dangerous materials/contraband seen in rooms. Viewed the isolation rooms--no
hazards noted. Viewed grounds of facility. A piece of sharp sheet metal from the roof was immediately visible
near the door. DON advised that residents are not currently allowed to use the courtyard, grounds, or gym
while the roofers are completing their work on the building. Licensing specialist recommended that leaves
piled around the fence in the yard are removed after workers finish to ensure there are no dangerous materials
in the yard debris.

Follow up on self-reported incidents:

Spoke with CEO Cassie Sowder who stated that individualized behavior plans are being created for residents
who exhibit frequent self-harm behaviors. She stated resident || has the first plan that has been
implemented and it includes identifying signs/symptoms of escalation, implementing specific interventions
(noise cancelling headphones, weighted vest,etc.) and requires staff working with resident to sign off that they
understand the plan. The facility's plan is to create this for other residents as needed with a target completion
date of 2/14/23. CEO also plans to increase therapy and educational groups on the unit. CEO stated staff is
receiving training on supervision requirements--specifically what true 1:1 looks like, close proximity needed
for constant LOS, etc.

4 children involved in serious occurrences were interviewed. One child stated that "staff do their job and help
us and stuff" and verified that the corrective action plan provided by the facility was being implemented.

www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 2 of 3


Another child stated that her biggest concern over the weekend was that they (residents) don't have anything
to do since not being able to use the grounds or the gym. She stated that the facility has implemented a policy
to lock resident's puzzles and books in a closet in their room and only allow one book at a time to prevent
clutter since "DHS told them they had to do that." She said they mostly watch TV or listen to music on the
TVs and "the only thing we have to do is fight, so there are a lot of fights." A third resident stated that she is
upset that she was moved from her room to a different unit instead of the resident who allegedly touched her.
Licensing specialist asked her if she was on any precautions that she was aware of and she stated that she was
on suicide precautions. She stated that there is "nothing different" about being on suicide and line of sight
precautions and not and stated she is not in LOS of staff at all times. The fourth resident refused to answer any
questions stating that she did not wish to talk about the events that occurred over the weekend, and that she
has already talked to someone.

No citations in areas viewed--facility will receive technical assistance for standard 909.8--the facility will
ensure that each child in care is provided with opportunities for regular recreational activities and
exercise--facility CEO stated they will re-visit the policy of locking recreational materials in the closets with
residents. Licensing specialist provided clarification that DHS does not require this. While gym and yards are
inaccessible, please ensure the residents have group recreational activities indoors during the week and on the
weekends--all three residents interviewed stated they are watching TV in the units during the weekends.

Facility will receive technical assistance for standard 901.1--please ensure that the grounds have been
examined thoroughly for self-harm implements when construction is completed. Licensing recommends
removing leaves and yard debris for a better view of the facility grounds when construction work is
completed.

Provider Comments:

CCL Staff Signature : Date: 1/19/2023
Provider Signature : Date: 1/19/2023
www.arkansas.gov/dhs

Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 3 of 3