Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 4/30/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 5/1/2023
Facility Name: Dacus RTC
Facility Number: 108
Facility Type:
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Client Birthdate: Caresource Staff Present: Erica
Bonner and Octavia Lloyd Date of Incident: 4/30/2023 Client threw items at the tv, peers,
and staff. Client broke the remote and a chair. Client attacked staff by punching staff with
closed fist. Client was placed in a TCP from 6:14pm-6:15pm. Client continued to throw items
at staff. Staff observed client through the window of the door for safety measures. Client
took a hoodie and wrapped it around his neck. Client picked up a piece of broken plastic
and scratched himself with it on his arm. Client had redden marks on anterior of neck and
superficial scratches on right forearm. No active bleeding. Client denied pain. Client was
placed on assault precautions, suicide precautions and 60k focus.
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was assessed staff. He was placed on assault
precautions, suicide precautions, and 60k focus.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing Specialist reviewed provider reported incident. Licensing
Specialist will inquire about the broken piece of plastic. Licensing Specialist informed that
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

the broken piece of plastic came from the remote when the resident broke the remote.
5/26/23- Licensing reviewed camera footage of the incident. The resident was with one
other peer in the activities room along with one staff. The residents were on restriction so
they could not join their peers upstairs for regular activities such as playing on the gaming
system. The resident can be seen pacing the room when he begins to act out, throw things,
and get violent. The peer is removed from the room as the resident continues to try and
assault the two female staff now in the room. The resident is placed in a brief restraint hold,
but eventually let go. The resident continues to act aggressively and at one point throws a
battery at the staff hitting her in the forehead causing her head to bleed. At 6:16PM you can
see what appears to be the resident attempting to self-harm on his arm. The nurse appears
in the room to assess his injuries from self-harming at 6:28PM. Licensing discussed with the
direct care staff supervisor the need for staff to still be interacting and programming with
the residents that are on restriction instead of having them sit in a room. The supervisor
states that staff are suppose to program with the kids on restriction during this time, but the
resident in question is often sexually inappropriate without warning and they only had one
female staff available to be in the room. Licensing encouraged the supervisor to discuss
continuing to program with this staff and working on ways to redirect the resident when he
is inappropriate.