Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 023916
Date of Incident: 9/10/2024
Date Received: 9/11/2024
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for
client in our PRTF program and resides in Chestnut House Incident Report date/time:
09/10/24 1:30pm Location of Incident: Siebert School Incident Description: Aggressive to
Adults, Threat to Safety Staff Involved: Charles Hoof, Rasheauna Lambert, Rodney Ellis,
Taylor Tull, Anthony White, Barrett Harger, Ben Malone, Dejuan Williams, Caitlin
Henthorne, Kara Brooks, Joseph Davis Events Leading: Client was being a disruption and
not following directions in the classroom and d-zone staff was asked for assistance. He was
asked if he wouldn't mind sitting down and offered to take a walk, or talk things out, etc.
Client was offered a number of options, but client refused. Client proceeded to continue to
walk around in the room and threatened the teacher in the class and threatened to hit her
and cussed at her. He walked up into her face and pushed her out of her chair and D-zone
staff immediately escorted the client from the classroom after that. 1:30pm-Personal
Restraint: Client restrained at this time. Client was escorted out of the classroom and
towards the d-zone for safety. Client continued to fight back and try to get out of the hold.
While escorted towards the d-zone, he punched one staff member 2-3 times in the chest
after escaping one hand from the hold and was quickly continued to be escorted by staff
towards the d-zone. Once safe in the D-zone, he continued to struggle and kick staff and
was soon reversed to a hold on the ground for safety. While on the ground, pt continued to
curse and say, " let me go", and continued to struggle and try to get out of the hold ,
attempting to roll his body as staff made adjustments. Staff encouraged client to focus on
his breathing. He protested to be let go of the restraint in response. 1:41pm-Personal
Restraint End: Pt started to calm down and was released one at a time from the hold and
complied to sit in a chair. Staff sat with him and talked. 1:42pm-Personal Restraint: Pt
attempted to exit the d-zone area with unsafe behaviors and was put in a hold again. Pt
continued to kick and cuss at staff members. 1:44pm-Personal Restraint End: Pt soon
calmed down and complied to be safe and he was released from the restraint. Patient
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Debriefing date/time: 09/10/24 1:50pm: Pt was encouraged to go to his " safe places" when
mad or frustrated and talk to staff and request options or resources at his disposal when
needed. Pt said he had gotten mad because "everyone was talking too much" and "too
loud." Pt said that he didn't like the way staff were laying on his legs during the restraint. Pt
said that next time he would stay in his safe place for a longer period of time (pt had used
one of his safe spaces right before the incident, but only for a couple of minutes). Nursing
Assessment date/time: 09/10/24 1:55pm: Patient sitting on the floor in the dzone talking
with staff. Patient states that he has pain in his right arm. Upon assessment, patient has a
dime size area of skin abrasion. Patient also states that his fingers are sore on his right hand
from hitting the staff. He stated "this is my punching hand". Patient shows no signs of
distress. Breathing is unlabored, patient has FROM with his extremities. No signs of
redness, swelling, or discoloration of the right hand. Patient reported as he was waling out
of the dzone heading back to Chestnut house, that his left calf area was sore. He was unsure
of what happened to cause the soreness. Patient offered PRN pain medication and ice pack.
He declined both. Injuries to staff or client: No injuries to pt. Staff were shoved and
punched. Follow-up to injuries: Staff will self care. Additional Comments: PCSO was called
to the scene to allow staff to make a report/press charges. At this time I do not have the
police report #. The pt was cited and released, as well as given a court date. Police report
was emailed to Kendra Slade on 09/11/24
Interim Action Narrative: Resident placed in a restraint for safety and the police were called.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing reviewed provider reported incident for licensing concerns.
9/19/2024, Program Coordinator inquired about doucmentation. Facility provided
documentation and it has been uploaded.