R
Notice of Incident
Case Number: 030395
Date of Incident: 6/9/2025
Date Received: 6/10/2025
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Report Description: Incident Report for
client in our PRTF program and resides in Sturgis House Incident Report date/time: 06/09/25
5:25pm Location of Incident: Sturgis House Intervention Type: Acute Placement Incident
Description: Aggressive to Peers Staff Involved:
Events Leading: Patient was placed on Freeze
earlier in the day because he cursed at a peer that came across as bullying. When staff told him this
he became extremely angry and started to curse at staff and throw objects at them. He also flipped
over a trash can and flipped over tables. He ended up talking with a staff member in the comfort
room for about 15 - 20 minutes and calmed down. He then spoke with the nurse before going back
to his room. He then started to come out of his room constantly saying he needed to go to the
bathroom. He kept walking by a particular patient and this patient became frustrated and said that
was instigating and cursing at him. This peer tried to distance himself as much as possible
and staff spoke with this peer in private to help them calm down. Afterwards this patient got in line
to go to the cafeteria. then walked towards the line and punched this patient in the face and
laughed. Staff did not restrain him but he walked him to the comfort room. Nursing Assessment
date/time: 06/09/25 6:00pm: Client reportedly attacked peer unprovoked. Client was administered
Zydis 5mg ODT. Client right hand 3rd digit has small abrasion to the proximal phalange. TAO and
clean bandage applied. Client is processing with staff and showing signs of calming down. Client
states he could not control himself and he hit peer ZS in the face. Client went to his room and
rested. . Client left via around 9:35pm. Guardian was
notified on 06/10/25 at 1:58pm. was discharged from Youth Home due to his payer and
will be readmitted upon discharge from acute.
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov