There is no camera footage as resident hid behind his bedroom door from staff and was left
unsupervised while the rest of the hall transitioned to cafeteria. 05/20/24 LS White
completed an in person follow up on this incident. The incident was not reportable per MLS
109.17: The agency shall notify the Licensing Unit by the next business day of serious
injuries requiring emergency medical treatment, agency vehicle accidents, arrests,
elopements, suicide attempts, or deaths and maintain documentation of the incident and
notification. However, since the facility acknowledged the incident as ?an incident of safety
and supervision oversight? and called the hotline ?due to safety and supervision issue of the
resident where resident was left unsupervised" they are in violation of MLS 907.2 : Childcare
staff shall be responsible for providing the level of supervision, care, and treatment
necessary to ensure the safety and well-being of each child at the facility, taking into
account the child?s age, individual differences and abilities, surrounding circumstances,
hazards, and risks.

Arkansas Department of Human Services
Placement & Residential Licensing Unit
Licensing Compliance Record
Agency Name: Perimeter Behavioral of Forrest City Person In Charge: Charlotte Lockhart
Address: 603 Kittle Rd., Forrest City, AR 72335 Phone: (870) 633-3200
Licensing Specialist: Eleanor White
Date of Visit: 05/20/24 Purpose of Visit: complaint and PRI follow ups.
ELS Case 020934
STANDARD COMPLIANCE DATE
DISCUSSION/OBSERVATION
REVIEWED DATE CORRECTED
Time 1:00 PM to 3:00 PM
Census: 54
Licensing Specialist Eleanor White reviewed the following incident with Immanuel
Morris, Director of Quality and Risk Management.
On 04/25/24 Resident hid from staff behind his bedroom door as they were
transitioning the hall residents to the cafeteria for breakfast. Resident was left
unattended for approximately 19 minutes in his room There are no cameras in
the bedrooms therefore no camera footage to review. An incident of safety and
supervision oversight
Agency initiated and verified with licensing the following corrective actions: 1) an
internal investigation of the incident to include
2) all staff involved were given a corrective action write up 3) all
staff involved were trained/retrained in safety and supervision of residents and
signed training competency form in understanding of the supervision oversight.
MLS 109.17 states "The agency shall notify the Licensing Unit by the next
business day of serious injuries requiring emergency medical treatment, agency
vehicle accidents, arrests, elopements, suicide attempts, or deaths and maintain
documentation of the incident and notification." This occurrence does not
categorically meet any of the reportable occurrences as outline in MLS 109. 17.
However, since the facility acknowledges the incident as “an incident of safety
and supervision oversight” “due to the safety and
supervision issue of the resident where resident was left unsupervised" they
violated MLS 907.2: Childcare staff shall be responsible for providing the level of
supervision, care, and treatment necessary to ensure the safety and well-being of
each child at the facility, taking into account the child’s age, individual differences
and abilities, surrounding circumstances, hazards, and risks. N/C
COMMENTS of Person receiving form
Eleanor White 05/20/24
PERSON SIGNING AS RECEIVING DATE LICENSING SPECIALIST DATE