Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 020400
Date of Incident: 4/8/2024
Date Received: 4/9/2024
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for
client in our PRTF program and resides in Sturgis House Incident Report date/time:
04/08/24 9:40am Location of Incident: Outdoors on the Youth Home Campus Incident
Description: Medical Emergency (Trip to ER/Urgent Care), Patient Injury Staff Involved:
Barrett Harger, Valerie Alvarez Events Leading: Patient was playing football and when
running tripped and fell. On the ground he was grimacing and telling staff that his leg was
hurting. He was in a lot of pain and a nurse came to look at him and turned him from being
on his stomach to being on his back. After this, the nurses looked at his injury and decided
to have him be looked at by an urgent care physician. When the medical staff at the urgent
care examined him they told Youth Home staff that he should be taken to the ER due to the
severity of his injury. Staff ended up taking him there afterwards. Nursing Assessment
date/time: 04/08/24 9:45am: Nursing was called to the field after a client was observed
lying on the ground, face down, crying and c/o pain particularly (L) knee. He reportedly
was playing football. was assisted in rolling over in order to prevent straining or
movement of knee. He c/o severe pain, immobilization of knee, unable to extend, unable to
bend, and increased pain upon any palpation. His beanie was pulled over his face as he
continued to cry. Increasing amount of bruising and swelling noted, initially beginning at
lateral part of knee. Unable to bear weight and c/o feeling of knee buckling and instability.
Client was wearing denim jeans, making it difficult to assess above the knee. He c/o
increased pain as nurses attempted to roll his jeans up. A cold pack was applied to the
affected area. PRN ibuprofen 400mg administered. Client was assisted via (2) team
members to a nearby bench ensuring not to bear weight or twist/turn the affected area. MD
notified with assessment findings with order to send out for further evaluation. Notes: 1016:
Guardian was called and notified of injury and client currently being transported to Urgent
care. Guardian expressed understanding. He reported that he plans to attempt to visit next
week pending working "some things out on (his) end". 1047: Left guardian a voicemail
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

explaining to client and team member were now in route to ACH ER following urgent care
instructions. returned from ACH ER at approx. 1445. Dx with contusion of (L) knee.
Xray of knee normal. Care instructions: RICE for 48 hours. Rest, ice, compression, and
elevate. Administer PRN ibuprofen/apap as needed. Follow up if: the pain gets worse, pain
medicine is not helping, or bruised area gets redder, more swollen, or feels hot. Client was
given crutches and placed on activity limit. 1512: Left guardian a voicemail reporting client
returned and instructions above.
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was assessed by the nurse, taken to urgent care, and
then to the ER.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Reviewed Provider Reported Incident for Licensing concerns. Facility
provided documentation.