Policies and Procedures Findings:
Upon review of the identified policies there were no deficiencies noted. The following observations were
noted:
• The Emergency Safety Intervention policy recognizes physical restraints as “The application of
physical external force (not to include mechanical restraint) on the resident to limit mobility. It
shall be used for a period of time as brief as possible and in such a manner that reduces the chance
of physical harm as much as possible. Physical restraint shall not restrict respiratory movements or
other vital functions. A physician's order is required for physical restraints. Physical restraint is a
crisis intervention used to resolve an emergency safety situation to contain severe, out of control
behavior, which is likely to cause harm to the resident, other residents, or staff.”
• The Emergency Safety Intervention policy states that “If a staff member or resident receives a
serious injury during an emergency safety intervention, the staff involved will debrief with the
supervisor. A body assessment completed, identifying any injuries to staff or resident that occurred
during the time of the emergency safety intervention. Identification of the cause of the injury and a
description of the injury will be documented on the body assessment form included in the
Emergency Safety Intervention Justification form. This form is to be filed in the resident's medical
record following the ESI Justification form. During the debriefing, staff involved will determine
what can be done to prevent such injuries during the ESI in the future. The staff involved may
receive retraining from the certified Handle with Care techniques instructor to prevent potential
injuries in the future. All serious injuries will be reported to the Office of Long-Term Care and
Disability Rights Center by the close of business the next day.”
• Training requirements within the Emergency Intervention policy are outlined as follows, “Staff will
complete Handle with Care recertification training annually. Direct care staff also participate in a
Handle with Care refresher training within six months of certification/recertification.”
• The providers policy for reporting incidents are as follows:
o An "incident" is an unanticipated event, which results in, or nearly causes, a negative
impact on patient care or visitor safety. Any harm caused can be temporary, long-term, or
permanent and range in severity from no Obviates or significant injury, up to death.
▪ Supervisor will review the Incident Report for legibility, completion, and date.
Supervisor will notify facility Risk Manager of a serious incident as well as take
the lead in investigating non-serious incidents.
▪ The Incident Report will be routed to the facility Risk Manager within 24 hours of
incident.
▪ Completed, reviewed, and signed Incident Reports must be entered into the Risk
Management Information System ("RiskQual/HAS" incident reporting system).
The “Level l" and "Level Il" incidents must be entered within 24 hours. 'Level Ill"
and "Level IV" incidents must be entered within 5 calendar days.
▪ If the incident involves a patient, staff must chart relevant and factual information
in the patient's medical record. When documenting incidents in the medical
records, staff will chart precisely what happened without referring to an "error" or
that an Incident Report was completed. Staff should not attribute any cause to the
unanticipated event.
Clinical Review Deficiencies:
AFMC was provided with the alleged victim’s file for review.
The provider uploaded records which were then reviewed for compliance with licensure standards. Based
on the review of clinical components of licensure requirements, the following deficiencies were noted:
Piney Ridge Treatment Center, LLC.- Fayetteville, AR - IOC Report 2 | P ag e