Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 019739
Date of Incident: 3/7/2024
Date Received by DCCECE: 3/8/2024
Facility Name: Perimeter of the Ozarks
Facility Number: 237
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Patient/Resident Name/DOB:
Date/Time of incident: 3/7/24 @ 1957 On 3/7/24 at 1957,
physically assaulted by punching her in the face after a verbal altercation.
Within a few seconds, became involved and began physically assaulting
During the altercation, ran up and kicked The altercation was ceased in
under a minute by staff intervention. Upon separation, exited the unit with staff
while and remained on the unit. Due to the nature of the attack, the age
difference between (initial perpetrator) and (victim), and the recent
increase in assaultive behavior with Springdale Police Department was contacted.
Upon arrival at the facility, law enforcement reviewed camera footage and conducted staff
interviews. At the conclusion of the investigation with law enforcement, and
were detained and transported to Washington County Juvenile Detention Center by
Springdale Police Department. Actions Taken: and were transported to
Washington County JDC where they were booked overnight. All 3 perpetrators were seen by
the judge this morning at JDC and were charged with Battery ? 2nd degree. and
were transferred back to the facility after their hearing. remained in custody at
Washington County JDC after her hearing. Facility provider was notified of the incident and
will be seeing for a medical assessment today to ensure there was no significant
injury. Parties notified of event: Perpetrator 1
Perpetrator 2 Perpetrator 3
Victim Sara Loftis, CEO Art Hickman,
Regional CEO Rebecca Thomas, VP Clinical Training Chris Perry, VP Risk
Compliance/Quality Shyanne Anthony ? Clinical Director Heather Harper, VP Nursing
Sarah Whorton-Director of Nursing Kris Stewart, Reagan Stanford, and Ashlyn Whelchel
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

(Disability Rights of AR) Chelsea Vardell, Kendra Rice, Jarred Parnell and Felicia Harris
(DHS)
Interim Action Narrative:
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: 3/8/2024 - The provider reported incident was reviewed by Licensing
Specialist Jarred Parnell. Licensing Specialist will reach out to the facility for the police
report. A visit was conducted on 3/12/2024 Video footage was reviewed for 6:55 - 6:59 -
3/7/2024 in regards to the provider reported incident. An altercation started when
kicked a spiral from became upset and started to move around the halls of the unit.
Three residents surrounded the Tech area in the dayroom. was put behind tech Arland
then moved around Arland and was hit in the face and knocked to the ground by
3 techs came into the room and stopped the altercation and separated the residents.
Alrand put was placed in an appropriate handle with care hold on the ground. The three
aggressors were taken to JDC and is still in custody. Police responded to
the scene. A copy report has been requested from the police department and will be sent to
Licensing as soon as possible. 3/14/2024 - Licensing specialist staffed the provider reported
incident with Licensing Supervisor. Licensing specialist reached out to the facility in
regards to safety plans in place prior to the incident, and TA was provided for altercations
between residents. The following TA was provided to the facility; Technical assistance was
provided regarding escalation and altercations in the future. When residents are exhibiting
assaultive behavior and deregulation as a group, the facility will remove the target of the
aggression and assaultive behavior to the milieu to process and diffuse the situation as a
preventative measure. If there is only one deregulated resident exhibiting assaultive
behavior, that resident will be removed to the milieu for processing to diffuse the situation.