Licensing Narrative: Licensing received report 5/31/23 that on 05/30/23 client
reported to the nursing department that one staff member-
physically pushed her against the wall and pulled her hair. Another choked her
while attempting to take a spray bottle from her. A camera review was conducted for the
incident; was not a witness on the camera choking the resident at all. However, the
administration could see the push from the staff- . did not have any bruises
or injuries. Little Creek will have both staff members retrained in Handle with care
techniques and verbal de-escalations on 06.01.23. The incident was called into the child
abuse hotline for Arkansas and submitted online for the state of Texas. The report was not
accepted on for pushing or pulling the resident hair but accepted on for the
alleged choking. Referral number . Email sent to facility 6/1/23 to save camera
footage of this incident. 6/1/2023- Program Coordinator called the investigator and received
permission to contact the agency. Facility visited 6/1/23 and video reviewed of incident
which occurred in a classroom. Client seen approaching desk at the front of the
classroom. A bottle of cleaning product was on the desk. A teacher is seen behind the desk.
grabs the cleaning product and what appears to be a rag and begins to clean a board on
the wall. Staff is seen observing do this for around 1 minute and does not
intervene. Another staff, , is seen entering the classroom as to get the bottle
from . Staff is observed pushing against the wall. The push seemed
to be a light shove but was done in an unprofessional manner. Little Creek Risk Mgmt.
Jlynn Perkins consulted who stated that the shove was not in accordance with the "Handle
with Care" protocol utilized by the facility. is seen throwing a chair. Staff
assisted at this time with what appears to be a two person hold on each of 's arms. The
door to the classroom opens which at this time blocks camera view and ,
staff being in view at this time. Other staff enter the classroom. seems to calm
down without further incident. is seen walking from behind the open door and does not
appear injured or is heard complaining of injury. interviewed during today's visit.
stated that "choked" her. When asked to describe this indicated this
happened with one hand. did not elaborate on this incident when given the chance.
Client was interviewed during today's visit. stated that she witnessed this incident,
including when " was behind the door with . When asked, stated that at no
time did she see choke . stated that she has never seen physically
aggressive towards a client. Facility cited 109.1g for shoving client
907.2 for staff not intervening when client had the cleaning product, and
910.1 for the cleaning product being easily accessible to client . As to document sub-
regulation 109.1(g) Engaging in behavior that could be viewed as sexual, dangerous,
exploitative, or physically harmful to children. Licensing submitted a report to the Child
Abuse Hotline on 6/1/23 regarding the initially screened out portion of this incident
involving A/O . Ref# . Received email from Child Abuse Hotline
6/1/23 as follows: The referral was not accepted for investigation and was documented only
due to: Does not meet criteria set forth in Child Maltreatment Laws for Child Abuse or
Neglect.