Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 10/25/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 10/27/2023
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Dual
Report Description: Incident Report for DOB: Private placement
client in our PRTF program and resides in Mabee House. Incident Report date/time:
10/25/23 8:04pm Location of Incident: Mabee House Incident Description: Aggressive to
Adults, Threat to Safety, Property Destruction, Injury to Staff/Authorized Visitor Staff
Involved:
Events Leading: Client was upset after receiving a
pause for being rude to staff. Client went into her room closet after med monitoring. Client
refused to take meds. Client then came out of her room and started flipping over furniture.
Client was then in PR 8:04pm Personal Restraint: Client is in PR and being taken to
seclusion. Client is upset and and still yelling at staff. Staff is trying to clear out seclusion so
she could go in. 8:05pm Personal Restraint End: Client was placed in seclusion and let out
of restraint. 8:06pm Locked Seclusion: Client is in seclusion and is very upset. Client is still
refusing to calm. Staff is observing client and trying to get her to calm. 8:08pm Locked
Seclusion End: Client has broken a peers cup and has exposed sharp plastic edges around
the cup that could be used to self harm with. Staff opens seclusion door to remove the item
from 8:09pm Personal Restraint: Client threw bottle at staff when staff came in to get
item from her. Client was then placed in another PR. Client was upset and kicking and
scratching staff. Client was trying to bang her head on the floor and spit on staff as well.
Staff is trying to calm client down and get her out of the personal restraint. 8:24pm Personal
Restraint End: Client has calmed and has agreed to talk with nurse once staff let's her out of
restraint. Patient Debriefing date/time: 10/25/23 9:00pm: Client has calmed down
significantly and is processing with the nurse. Client has agreed to restore with staff about
her freeze. Nursing Assessment date/time: 10/25/23 8:28pm: When the nurse got back to
Mabee, she heard furniture shifting before she ever went inside. After entering at Mabee
House, staff members locked the patient in seclusion. The patient was shouting at staff
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

members and pounding the window with another patient's water bottle while in lock
seclusion. While in lock seclusion, the patient began hitting the camera with a water bottle
until it broke. Because the patient had broken a water bottle and there were shards of plastic
all around the seclusion room, staff had to go inside because that area was now unsafe for
patient. The patient was physically restrained because she was too unstable for the staff to
release her from seclusion. It was observed that the patient was trying to spit on the staff
members and was scratching and kicking while under physical restraint. The patient was
repeatedly instructed to cease kicking and scratching, but she refused to comply. After
being warned multiple times not to do so, the patient was seen digging her nails into the
staff member's hand. The left hand of the staff had blood on it. The patient was hitting her
head on the ground as well. The nurse put a pillow under the patient's head and tried again
to calm her down so she could be let go. Finally, the patient was able to relax and was
released from personal restraint. Patient vitals were T-99.2, HR 122, R 23 and BP 114/67 at
the time of nurse examination. The patient was able to respond appropriately and spoke in a
clear and understandable manner. PERRLA equal and reactive to light. No vomiting or
nausea were mentioned. No reports of visual impairment or dizziness. There are no
symptoms of sore throat, hoarseness, coughing, drooling, respiratory distress, or difficulty
swallowing. There are no visible markings on the neck. Petechia noted around the cheeks,
nose, and eyeballs. According to the patient the petechia was caused by her using face wash
last week. No sensitivity to noise or light reported by patient. The patient reported that her
head was pulsating. The patient stated that the pulsating was merely on the right side,
toward the end of her right eyebrow, and not a headache. Two scratches are visible on the
patient's right thumb towards the bottom. That happened while the personal restraint. The
patient refused the medication that the nurse offered. Patient said she could clean scratches
on her own, even though the nurse offered to help. In front of the nurse, she was handed
alcohol wipes to clean off her scratches. The nurse advised the patient to notify staff if her
condition worsens so that she can be examined. The patient was tearful and apologetic
during assessment. The patient was able to recall events leading to incident. Patient injuries
and incident were reported to the on-call MD. MD ordered freeze, lock isolation, unlock
seclusion, and personal restraint. Both the patient's mother and the on-call UM were
informed of the occurrence. The nurse gave the patient her nightly medications and
escorted her back to her room. Steady gait now with no issues with balance or coordination.
The patient did not note or report any other symptoms or concerns. In addition, the patient
complained of knee pain while in physical restraint. She stated that she hurt her knee earlier
today while outside. Upon evaluation following the patient's release from restraint, a tiny
red mark on the right knee was observed; edema was absent. Patient's gait was steady and
range of motion was good. When the nurse asked if the patient needed anything to help
with her pain, the patient said no. Guardian was notified on 10/25/23 at 8:45pm, 8:47pm,
8:53pm Incident Report on 10/26/23 at 8:48am Location of Incident: Siebert School
Incident Description: Staff Involved: Elizabeth Larson, Richelle Kumiyama,
Cody Horn Events Leading: Today while in med checks being seen by the provider for
weekly evaluation. stated that she was placed in a restraint last night and was
placed in seclusion. Pt states that she was restrained improperly and that they were not
holding her properly and she knew this by the way she was able to still pinch and

he was digging his nails into her hand(stating that a small abrasion on palm side next to
thumb was from this.) She also reported that she was grabbed by the collar of her shirt and
that it was tight on her neck and it was "choking her." Pt states that she tried to tell them
that she was being choked but they wouldn't listen. Pt had no marks on her neck/throat but
is noted to have some petechiae around her eyes and cheeks that wasn't there yesterday. A
hotline report was made due to the statements and findings on patient Incident Report on
10/26/23 at 3:30pm: Location of Incident: Siebert School Incident Description: Medical
Emergency (Trip to ER/Urgent Care) Staff Involved: Valerie Alvarez, Elizabeth Larson
Events Leading: EL, RN reported the following and inquired what to do: "While doing med
checks today and seeing she stated that she was placed in a restraint last night
and was placed in seclusion. Pt states that she was restrained improperly and that they were
not holding her properly and she knew this by the way she was able to still pinch
and he was digging his nails into her hand(stating that a small abrasion on palm side next
to thumb was from this.) She also reported that she was grabbed by the collar of her shirt
and that it was tight on her neck and it was "choking her." Pt states that she tried to tell
them that she was being choked but they wouldn't listen. Pt had no marks on her
neck/throat but is noted to have some petechiae around her eyes and cheeks that wasn't
there yesterday. This could be from numerous things and I don't want to assume its from
the collar of her clothing since no marks were present on her throat/neck." She was
instructed to pass this on to the UMs for further instructions. Attending APRN/DON/MD
notified with order to send out to ACH ER for further evaluation of petechiae rash
on face and headache that has not responded to PRN treatment. was transported to
ACH ER in Youth Home Van with a team member and left campus around 1730. Nursing
Assessment date/time: 10/26/23 9:40pm: MR, RN notified the treatment team via email the
following: " . returned from ACH at about 7:45pm tonight. She was diagnosed with
. Medications ordered are as follows: mg tablet Directions
Take 3 (three) tablet by mouth three times a day as needed for headache for 7 days. She has
also been placed on activity limit x 3 days then reevaluate d/t potential for post-concussion
syndrome. Please watch for irretractable vomiting. She may have sensitivity to light and
screens. Straining while reading or focusing may lead to a headache." Guardian was
notified on 10/26/23 at 5:40pm: A. Mother was called and notified of attending APRN
sending out to ACH ER for further evaluation of petechiae rash on face and
headache that has not responded to PRN treatment. This nurse inquired if CT has been in
contact with her today. She reported if CT attempted to reach out to her, she missed it.
Discussed with CT will be in contact with her regarding incident that happened
the evening prior and notification of child abuse hotline call. inquired if another
hotline call was made against them again. Instructed guardian the allegations reported were
regarding the incident the evening prior and CT will be contact with her. Guardian reported
she would attempt to get into contact with CT.
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was assessed by the nurse and sent to ACH for further
evaluation. Resident placed on activity restrictions. AR Hotline was called.

Maltreatment Narrative: Resident reported she was placed in a restraint improperly hold
and staff member dug his fingernails in her hand. Resident also reported that she was
grabbed by her collar of her shirt and it was choking her.
Licensing Narrative: Licensing Specialist was informed of this complaint and provided
documentation. Licensing Specialist reviewed complaint for licensing concerns. Licensing
Specialist inquired about camera footage and requested for footage to be saved. 10/30/2023,
Licensing Specialist will inquire to see if complaint was accepted. Facility informed
Licensing Specialist that referral was accepted. Licensing Specialist requested the referral
number. Licensing Specialist inquired about the assigned investigator. 10/31/2023,
Licensing Specialist requested permission to contact the facility. Licensing Specialist
received permission to contact the facility. Licensing Specialist observed camera footage.
Licensing Specialist received the corrective action for staff member. 11/27/2023, Licensing
Specialist contacted investigator for an update. Licensing Specialist informed that case was
found unsubstantiated.