Division of Provider Services
& Quality Assurance
P.O. Box 8059, Slot S404
Little Rock, AR 72203-8059
July 31, 2025
Dean Hill, Administrator
Delta Family Health And Fitness Center For Childre
815 E St Louis
Hamburg, AR 71646
Dear Mr. Hill:
On July 18, 2025 a Complaint Investigation survey was conducted at your facility by the Office of Long
Term Care to determine if your facility was in compliance with Federal requirements for Psychiatric
Residential Treatment Facilities participating in the Medicaid (Title XIX) Program. This survey found
that your facility had deficiencies requiring correction/substantial correction prior to a revisit as
specified in the attached CMS-2567.
Plan of Correction
A POC must be submitted within 10 calendar days of you receipt of the Statement of
Deficiencies. Failure to submit a POC may result in termination. Include a completion date for each
deficieny cited.
Stephanie Lester, Reviewer
OLTC, Survey & Certification Section
PO Box 8059, Slot S404
Little Rock, AR 72201-4608
(501) 396-6013
email to stephanie.lester@dhs.arkansas.gov.
Your Plan of Correction must also include the following:
a. Address how the corrective action will be accomplished for those residents found to have been
affected by the deficient practice;
b. Address how the facility will identify other residents having the potential to be affected by the same
deficient practice;
c. Address what measures will be put into place or systemic changes will be made to ensure that the
deficient practice will not recur;
d. Indicate how the facility plans to monitor its performance to make sure that solutions are sustained.
The facility must develop plan for ensuring that correction is achieved and sustained. This plan must
be implemented, and the corrective action evaluated for its effectiveness.
Dean Hill - Delta Family Health And Fitness Center For Childre - - (AOLTC - PRTF OTC) Page 1 ]

e. Include dates when corrective action will be completed. The corrective action completion dates must
be acceptable to the State. Your facility is ultimately accountable for its own compliance. The plan of
correction will serve as the facility’s allegation of compliance. Unless otherwise stated on the PoC, the
last completion date will be the date of alleged compliance.
Informal Dispute Resolution
In accordance with 42 CFR § 488.331, you have one opportunity to question deficiencies through an
informal dispute resolution (IDR) process. To obtain an IDR, you must send your written request to
Health Facility Services, Arkansas Department of Health within ten (10) calendar days from receipt of
the Statement of Deficiencies. The request must state the specific deficiencies the facility wishes to
challenge. The request should also state whether the facility wants the IDR to be performed by a
telephone conference call, record review, or a face-to-face meeting.
If the facility will be represented by an Attorney, please notify ADH in your IDR request and provide the
name and contact number for the Attorney. Additionally, please notify DHS, at
OLTC2@dhs.arkansas.gov, of your intent to be represented by an Attorney. Failure to do so may result in
a delay of your hearing.
An incomplete informal dispute resolution procedure will not delay the effective date of any
enforcement action or the requirement for timely submission of an acceptable plan of correction.
Informal dispute resolution in no way is to be construed as a formal evidentiary hearing. It is an
informal administrative process to discuss the findings.
Please submit your request to:
IDR/IIDR Program Coordinator
Health Facilities Services
5800 West 10th Street, Suite 400
Little Rock, AR 72204
Phone: 501-661-2201
ADH.HFS@Arkansas.gov
If you have any questions, please contact your Reviewer.
Sincerely,
for Jeff Rosenbaum
Stephanie Lester, RN QA Reviewer
DPSQA/Office of Long Term Care
Survey & Certification Section
sl
cc: DRA
Dean Hill - Delta Family Health And Fitness Center For Childre - - (AOLTC - PRTF OTC) Page 2 ]

Dean Hill - Delta Family Health And Fitness Center For Childre - - (AOLTC - PRTF OTC) Page 3 ]















Division of Provider Services
& Quality Assurance
P.O. Box 8059, Slot S404
Little Rock, AR 72203-8059
August 6, 2025
Dean Hill, Administrator
Delta Family Health And Fitness Center For Childre
815 E St Louis
Hamburg, AR 71646
Dear Mr. Hill:
On July 18,2025 we conducted a complaint survey at your facility. You have alleged that the
deficiencies cited on that survey have been corrected. We are accepting your allegation of compliance
and have approved your plan of correction and presume that you will achieve substantial correction by
August 8, 2025.
If you have any questions, please contact your reviewer: Stephanie Lester at 501-396-6013 or email
to: stephanie.lester@dhs.arkansas.gov.
Sincerely,
for Jeff Rosenbaum
Stephanie Lester, RN QA Reviewer
DPSQA/Office of Long Term Care
Survey & Certification Section
sl
Dean Hill - Delta Family Health And Fitness Center For Childre -- -- (AOLTC-14) Page 1