September 08, 2023
Habilitation Center, Llc
1810 Industrial Dr
Fordyce, AR 71742-7110
The Division of Provider Services and Quality Assurance (DPSQA) of the Arkansas Department of Human
Services has contracted with Arkansas Foundation for Medical Care (AFMC) to perform Inspections of Care
(IOC) for Inpatient Psychiatric Services for Under 21. The Medicaid Manual for Inpatient Psychiatric Services
for Under Age 21 was used in the completion of this report.
Observations and any deficiencies noted are listed below for the inspection conducted at the following service
site on the following date:
Habilitation Center, Llc
Provider Medicaid ID:
Onsite Inspection Date: September 05, 2023
Onsite Inspection Time: 9:03a.m.
A summary of the inspection and any deficiencies noted are outlined below.
Inspection of Care Summary
Facility Tour:
Upon arrival to facility, AFMC staff was promptly greeted at the entrance by a Habilitation Centers, LLC staff
member and a COVID-19 screening was conducted and temperatures noted. AFMC was immediately taken to a
conference room where they were met by the Chief Executive Officer and the Director of Risk Management.
A tour of the facility was completed with the Chief Executive Officer. The facility environment was extremely
clean, well-organized, and appeared to be in good repair. Therapeutic groups and educational classes were in
session. Staff were able to answer all questions regarding the facility. There were no areas of concern noted
during the tour. All facility staff encountered during the day were exceptionally pleasant and hospitable toward
AFMC staff, other facility staff, and the clients.
Facility Review – Policies and Procedures:
Upon review of the site’s policies and procedures, there were no deficiencies noted.
Personnel Records – Licenses, Certifications, Training:
There were forty-eight personnel records requested; nine (27%) professional staff and thirty-nine
(25%) paraprofessional staff. During the review of the personnel records, no deficiencies were noted.
Observations:
During the personnel record review, it was noted that the child maltreatment registry for SR014781
was dated after the onsite inspection. The registry check was dated for September 7, 2023.

Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality of Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list was
requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was completed. The
following is a summary of findings and noted deficiencies.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no client interviews
were conducted.
Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no clinical record
reviews were conducted.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
Clients were observed in the classroom and in a group activity on one of the units in the common area. Staff
were engaged with the clients and were providing a therapeutic environment.
Medication Pass:
No active FFS Medicaid clients received medications during a medication pass while AFMC staff was
onsite. Due to the observation of non-Medicaid clients not being complaint with the HIPAA minimal
necessary rule, no medication pass was observed. AFMC RN visited with the Habilitation Centers,
LLC Health medication nurse who was able to show AFMC RN the facility policies and procedures
regarding medication administration, narcotic count/reconciliation/handling, and medication
discrepancies.
Facility nurse was able to verbalize the step-by-step process of medication delivery including the
demonstration of the five rights of medication administration, documentation of medication delivery,
verification of client taking medication including mouth/cheek checks, and how clients are educated
about each medication. The facility nurse also verbalized the process utilized when a client refuses
medications. Tour of medication room completed with the Habilitation Centers, LLC medication nurse
and no discrepancies with medication storage, cleanliness of medication room, and knowledge of
medication dispensing found.
Respectfully,
Inspection of Care Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
Habilitation Center, Llc – Fordyce, AR – IOC Report 2 | P ag e