(staff) and Chris Franklin (staff) was called to assist to get and Jaylen off the unit due
to them being the target.
Interim Action Narrative: staff member is currently suspended
pending the investigation.
Narrative: AV is AO is staffmember . PRFC
is mother is inpatient at Methodist Family Health Behavioral
Facility. It was reported that on Wednesday night, left his hallway and went into
another hallway and attacked another patient in his sleep. and the same patient got
into a fight yesterday morning about the previous night?s incident, and then while in the
cafeteria waiting for group therapy went up to the patient and punched him in the
face. This morning 1/3/25, left his hallway and attempted to enter the other
patient?s hallway again. Staffmember Shawanda stopped him and asked him what he was
doing. said he was just going to the other hallway to chill. Shawanda told him they
weren?t going to do this this morning, and then came over to help. told
to go back to his hallway and put a hand on him to guide him. slapped
hand off him and then pushed away from him. then became
combative and and another staffmember, Jaylen, had to restrain him. started
spitting in face, so and Jaylen began trying to adjust their restraint on
continued to be combative during the adjustment, and his head was hit against the
doorframe. Jaylen and kept restrained until a coordinator arrived on scene,
after which they released him. immediately made allegations that had
intentionally hit his head into the doorframe during the altercation. then took off his
jacket and swung at Jaylen, missing him and hitting . and Jaylen then restrained
again. and Jaylen were then allowed to leave the scene to try to get to
calm down. When the nurse asked if she could assess him for injuries, told her ?fuck
you?. did allow the coordinator to check him for injuries, and no injuries were
reported though there was a red mark on his head where he hit the door frame. The camera
footage was reviewed and no malicious intent was observed, just being combative
during the attempt to adjust the restraint and hitting his head. is inpatient due to
aggressive behaviors against his mother, and he does have a probation officer.
Licensing Narrative: Licensing informed of complaint by facility via telephone. Facility
provided an email with the referral number, corrective action plan, and plan to request an
ICA. The facility's corrective action plan is to complete a CPI in-service for the staff and
complete and ICA requesting for the staff to work on a different floor. 1/6/2024, checked

for . Licensing will request permission from the to
contact the facility. Licensing will inquire about camera footage, safety precautions, bed
checks, and witness statements. Facility reported resident went to on
1/3/2025. Licensing inquired about safety plan when resident returns from .
Facility reported, residents were placed 10ft from each other. Resident will be placed in the
middle school classroom and the peer will be in the high school classroom so they will stay
separated at all times. Licensing Specialist Horton will view camera footage 01/07/2025.
01/07/2025 Licensing viewed camera footage and is not prepared to leave a finding at this
time. 1/8/2025, licensing requested restraint packet. Facility reported requested
documentations to Licensing via email. Documentation uploaded. The ICA for staff was
reviewed by the PRLU and denied. 2/5/2025, per is still . 2/19/2025,
per . Licensing Specialist informed. Licensing Specialist
reviewed/received information. 02/26/2025 Facility reported employee training document
the document was uploaded. This complaint has been unfounded by Licensing. 2/27/2025,
Program Coordinator reviewed case and contacted the facility regarding the ICA. 3/3/2025,
Case and documentation reviewed. Complaint unfounded by licensing. Case complete.