towel to cool down. Once out of restraint, client sat down on their bed and was calm. Client
was then looked over by nursing. Patient Debriefing date/time: 01/28/25 9:30pm: Client
claimed that he just wanted to draw and that staff "stole" his water bottle from him. Staff
reassured client that his water bottle wasn't stolen and was still allowed to get water when
needed. Staff members comforted client and explained to them that bed time is the same
time every night and that next time, client should opt for better coping skills. Staff also
reminded client that they could not make threats and put hands on others. Client talked to
guardians on the phone after incident as well. While on the phone, client seemed to have a
little bit of a hard time taking full accountability but did appear remorseful. Nursing
Assessment date/time: 01/28/25 9:00pm: Client required personal restraint due to physical
aggression towards staff. Client was released and began to process with staff. Client reports
left thumb is "broken". Client has limited ROM to left thumb due to pain, declined PRN
pain medications, declined ice. Left hand skin appears intact, brisk capillary refill noted.
Client is alert and oriented, gait is steady, vitals are stable. Client reports that he is still
angry at staff, encouraged client to forgive staff. Client was offered water and allowed to
speak with family on the phone. Client tearful afterwards, he was instructed to go to his
room and go to bed. He refused at first, but then went voluntarily. Client will need to be
reevaluated in the morning. Injury to staff or client: Client reports left thumb is "broken".
Follow-up to Injury: Client has limited ROM to left thumb due to pain, declined PRN pain
medications, declined ice. Left hand skin appears intact, brisk capillary refill noted.
Guardian was notified on 01/28/25 at 9:37pm. was transported by to
for an on 01/29/25 at 12:45am.
Interim Action Narrative: Resident placed in restraint for safety, assessed by the nurse, and
transported to .
Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Facility provided documentation for this provider reported incident.
Licensing reviewed provider reported incident for licensing concerns. 1/30/2025, licensing
inquired about resident's reported injury. Facility reported: There was no follow up before
acute as nursing had planned to re-evaluate the injury the next day. However, he then went
to acute. We have not received word on his physical status.