Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 2/2/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 3/9/2023
Facility Name: Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF
Facility Number: 233
Facility Type:
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: My daughter was at Millcreek for treatment for 6 weeks.
She was treated poorly by staff. They would yell at her. They were constantly yelling and
cussing at the other children there. She wasn?t being given her medication properly.
Interim Action Narrative: The facility reports that they will complete their "Nurture Heart"
training with the staff listed on the complaint, supervisory training for the unit coordinator
and will conduct ongoing monitoring of the unit. Nurture Heart certificates of completion
for
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: 3/10/23- Reporter was contacted via telephone by licensing supervisor
Chelsea Vardell. Information was gathered regarding the complaint and the case was
assigned to Specialist Clayton DeBoer. 3/13/23- Program Coordinator Chelsea Vardell and
Specialist Clayton DeBoer visited the facility to collect more information regarding this
complaint. Licensing received a complaint on 3/9/23 regarding an accusation that several
staff members had yelled and cussed at residents on the Zebra Hall. Additionally, when a
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

resident reported the concerns, the resident was retaliated against by the staff. The
complaint also listed concerns about a resident who did not receive her medication as
prescribed (a that is supposed to be taken one hour prior to eating and
not taken with any other medications). The complaint stated that the residents were not
being allowed to do things such as have recreation, phone calls with family, or go to school
if any of the residents were having "acting out" behaviors. Licensing spoke to Chris Butler
who provided the last names of the staff listed in the complaint. The facility was already
aware of the allegations and had performed in service training for several of the staff listed
on the complaint regarding cleanliness, recreational activities, supervision, and not
cancelling activities due to other residents' behaviors. Licensing spoke to the DON and a
unit nurse who stated that the should be given at 6am from the night
nurse, breakfast is at 7am, then all remaining morning medications should be given at 8am.
However, the MARs documentation for resident showed that her
and were being given at 8am by the morning nurse. Licensing discussed ensuring
that all medications required to be given at 6am before breakfast are documented as 6am on
the MARs and given to residents accordingly. The facility reports that they spoke to their
pharmacy consultant who reported that there is not contraindications between and
being administered at the same time. Licensing interviewed the following residents
, , , and . It was noted that staff do occasionally yell and use profanity on
the unit. The facility reports that they will complete their "Nurture Heart" training with the
staff listed on the complaint, supervisory training for the unit coordinator and will conduct
ongoing monitoring of the unit. Nurture Heart certificates of completion for Zebra Hall
staff involved in this complaint sent from facility 4/11/23. On 3/13/23 facility cited 905.4c
and 908.8. Phone call and email sent to facility 3/21/23 asking for MAR indicating
is given at 0600. is no longer at facility. MAR requested for other clients on
similar medication and that is is being distributed at 0600.