Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 019579
Date of Incident: 3/1/2024
Date Received by DCCECE: 3/4/2024
Facility Name: United Methodist Children's Home Little Rock Campus
Facility Number: 115
Incident Type: Dual
Report Description: On Friday 3/1/24 a
age DOB native and resident. Non DHS
client. reported to her therapist that : " reported during her individual session
that the week before, between Wednesday and Friday (Feb 21-Feb 23), she was getting her
things ready to shower when a staff member came into the bathroom with her. She stated
they were initially "joking around" by throwing tissues at each other but then the staff
member tried to put head into the toilet. stated that she was trying
to "fight against" the staff member to prevent her head from going into the toilet but the
staff member was successful in putting hand into the toilet. then
stated that she "somehow ended up on the floor with a split lip. " reported that
the staff member told her not to tell what happened because it would get her in trouble and
to inform the nurses that she fell and split her lip. reported that during the
altercation in the bathroom, another staff member closed the bathroom door and informed
other clients that "they did not need to see this. " stated she exited the bathroom
with the original staff member and informed the nurse she fell and split her lip.
also reported an incident that occurred the night of 02/26/24. She stated that she fought
with staff and that staff "threw her on the ground and was on top of her," threw a shoe at
her, and was pushing and hitting her during the altercation. reported that the
staff who was in the bathroom was and the staff that closed the door was
reported that the staff who threw the shoe at her and threw her
on the ground on the 26th was
After review of camera footage on the incident of the bathroom you see
and staff horse playing around. Both are joking, laughing, and
continuously playing around with each other. You see client throw a jacket at staff, as
staff is playing back with her. Staff does follow the client into the bathroom as other
staff is in the foyer and at the door of the bathroom. You can hear but not
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

see the client and the staff laughing, joking, horse playing around. A couple minutes later
you see staff leave laughing and then client comes out and throws wet toilet paper at the
staff. They continue to laugh and joke during the duration of the evening until the client
goes to bed. The staff had pour boundaries of horse playing with the clients. We have
instructed her that this can not happen moving forward. We have not been able to find any
evidence that the client reported this to the nurse of the "busted lip."
On the next incident, you see client get upset
after phone call with her mom. She came out of the phone booth, yelling, cursing, at staff.
Staff redirect client about behavior, and client throws shoe at staff ,staff picks up
the shoe and takes it into the Bi office. We have not been able to find any evidence of staff
throwing a shoe at client
Interim Action Narrative: . Staff members were suspendd
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Program Coordinator reviewed complaint for licensing concerns.
Program Coordinator will check for and request permission to contact
the facility. Program Coordinator inquired about camera footage and ICA for staff members
mentioned. 3/5/2024, Program Coordinator checked for and request
permission to contact the facility. Program Coordinator reviewed camera footage and
requested nursing notes. 3/12/2024, Program Coordinator inquired if resident was still at
the facility. Facility reported resident is still at the facility. 4/2/2024, Program Coordinator
checked case still pending.





Provider corrective action: Staff on supspension pending outcome of investigation.