Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 023554
Date of Incident: 8/24/2024
Date Received: 8/28/2024
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Reports for
client in our PRTF program and resides in Rose House Incident Report 1
date/time: 08/24/24 4:35pm Location of Incident: Rose House Incident Description:
Threat to Safety, Property Destruction Staff Involved:
Events Leading: Patient was walking through living area
being defiant to peer property, attempting to hide between washer and dryer when informed
by staff that was a safety issue, climbing onto furniture and jumping off of furniture despite
staff redirection. Patient obtained a broken rubber hair band and attempted to put it up to
her neck in a manor to choke self. Unsafe behavior due to climbing and obtaining items she
cannot have on eyeball precaution. 4:35pm Personal Restraint: Patient placed into personal
restraint due to performing unsafe behavior such as climbing onto furniture and jumping off
it in a reckless manner. Patient was defiant to staff redirection to remain safe and stop
jumping off of furniture. Patient currently hyperactive, covert, and attention seeking. Staff
continued to educate patient on discontinuing reckless unsafe behavior and her options
provided included stop jumping onto and off of furniture or staff would intervene to keep
patient safe. 4:45pm Personal Restraint End: Patient verbalizing that she can be safe and
wants to be released from intervention. Patient reports understanding of contracting to
safety and states "I will stop jumping off furniture and be safe now." Patient beginning to
calm and show cooperative affect and released from hold. Patient Debriefing date/time:
08/24/24 4:45pm: Discussed patient safety concerns implied by patient activity which
included threat of safety of patient falling and injuring herself from jumping of furniture and
causing bodily harm. Intervention hold procedure discussed and all members agreed that
intervention was performed in accordance with training in a safe manner. De-escalation
verbridge was noted to be satisfactory attempting to challenge patient behavior and educate
patient to reframe from unsafe behavior being performed. Nursing Assessment 1 date/time:
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

08/24/24 4:45pm: Patient presents in rose living area after intervention. Pt calming but still
hyperactive and attempting to defy staff direction despite redirection. Pt alert and oriented
to person place time and event. Pt denies having injury and physical complaint due to
intervention. Pt remains agitated and not able to follow staff directions at this time. Nursing
Assessment 2 date/time: 08/25/24 8:36am: Patient was reported from staff to have
transported by MEMS to pinnacle point behavioral hospital per transport order received
yesterday. Guardian was contacted on 08/24/24 at 6:24pm Incident Report 2 date/time:
08/24/24 5:50pm Location of Incident: Rose House Incident Description: Threat to Safety
Staff Involved:
Events Leading: Client was walking around milieu, climbing
and jumping on furniture. She found a broken hair rubber band and was putting it up to her
neck, but then agreed to give it to the nurse. After she gave it to the nurse, she took a
popsicle stick from the nurse's desk and refused to give it back. She started to attempt to
break it in half, creating sharp pieces. The unsafe behavior and threat of using a sharp
object initiated hold 1. Hold 2 was initiated by jumping from being unsafe, jumping from
furniture. 5:50pm Personal Restraint: Patient was put in personal restraint by the arms to get
the popsicle stick from her due to her trying to break it after already displaying unsafe
behavior. 5:51pm Personal Restraint End: Client released popsicle stick and restraint ended.
5:52pm Other/None: Client continued walking around the milieu, continuing with attention
seeking behavior. She bounced basketballs and volleyballs until they were removed by staff,
and threw a popit fidget as if it were a volleyball, until it was also removed. Client did sit
down to eat dinner when it was brought to her in the house. She ate the majority of dinner,
along with an ensure. She then got up and got into peers things in their lockers and jewelry
drawers until these things were removed as well. Staff continued verbal deescalation, asking
client what it is she needs, and she would only say she's hungry, when she had just eaten
dinner, including an ensure and fruit a few minutes beforehand. Client began
climbing/walking on milieu chairs again. Staff continued verbal deescalation. She began
jumping from one to another, which initiated the second restraint. 6:15pm Personal
Restraint: Client was placed in seated restraint due to jumping on furniture, from chair to
chair. She was agitated and not receptive to information for a couple of minutes, wiggling
until the hold moved to the floor. She was able to be moved back to a seated restraint.
6:20pm Personal Restraint End: Client calmed and contracted to safety. Patient Debriefing
date/time: 08/24/24 6:30pm: Client was calmer and contracted for safety. She did receive
and eat another apple after contracting for safety and following staff directions, as she was
stating she was still hungry. Client was not apologetic, but was receptive to instructions at
this point. Client fell asleep shortly after, on front of house. Nursing Assessment 1
date/time: 08/24/24 5:10pm: Patient presents in living area agitated currently over staff
performing intervention to remove popsicle stick patient took from nurse station desk.
Patient is alert and oriented times 4 and displaying very hyperactive behavior and not
following redirection prompts from staff. Pt encouraged to follow unit rules and directions.
Pt denies injury from intervention and no needs at this time. Nursing Assessment 2
date/time: 08/24/24 6:22pm: Patient presents siting on couch with sheriff officers present.
Pt denies injury from staff personal hold intervention and denies needs at this time. Pt alert
and oriented times 4. Pt is still displaying hyperactive behavior and not following staff

directions. Pt has made statement such as "I don't care". No bruising, abrasions, or
scratches observable on patient. Guardian was contacted on 08/24/24 at 6:24pm
was transported by MEMs on 08/25/24 at 8:36am to Pinnacle Pointe for an acute stay. She
remains at Pinnacle Pointe and was discharged from Youth Home due to her PASSE
requirements. Once she completes her acute stay, she will be readmitted to Youth Home.
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was placed in restraints for safety, assessed by the nurse,
and transported to acute care.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing was informed of incident via email and received
documentation for this provider reported incident. 8/29/2024, Program Coordinator
reviewed provider reported incident and uploaded documentation. Per report, resident will
return to the facility after acute care.