R
Notice of Incident
Case Number: 030558
Date of Incident: 6/16/2025
Date Received: 6/18/2025
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Report Description: Client: Resides in
house Incident Date: 6/16/25 8:03 PM in Rose House Staff Ratio at the time : 2 staff : 11 Clients
Staff involved:
vents Leading: Patient grabbed a paint bottle
out of the rec room and placed it under her shirt where staff couldn't see and went into the
bathroom. She then drunk (two swallows her words) of paint and came out of the bathroom. When
she came out of the bathroom, she told a peer what she did refusing to tell staff, the peer told a
certain staff when she walked back into the house. When the staff member went into the rec room,
showed staff her mouth and pulled the bottle out from under her shirt. Patient expressed that
she wanted to kill herself, staff then alerted the nurse and everyone else that needed to be aware.
Nursing Assessment 6/16/25 @ 8:49 PM: Nurse was called to assess the patient after she reportedly
ingested two gulps of Curate + Colour paint. The patient stated she consumed the paint in an
attempt to harm herself, taking it from the rec room to the bathroom where the ingestion occurred.
When asked about her reasoning, the patient shared that she no longer wanted to live. Upon further
questioning, the patient stated she informed a peer, who then alerted staff. She explained that she
chose to tell someone because she "didn't want to die alone." When asked if she had any additional
plans to harm herself, the patient responded yes--she had also considered drinking bleach.
on room air. The patient
reported a headache and stomach discomfort rated 4/10 but declined medication at this time. She
also expressed feeling very anxious. The nurse provided therapeutic support and discussed healthier
coping strategies for managing anxiety. At the time of nurse departure, the patient was seated in the
milieu area with staff supervision. Additional Nursing Progress Note: This nurse was called by house
staff at 2012 about pt drank some paint. when this nurse showed up at the house the pt was yelling,
"I want to die." "I am not worth it and I'm never going to be worth anything." Staff gave this nurse
a 16oz bottle of Curate + Colour paint. Staff informed this nurse that she drank most of the bottle.
It felt like there was only a few ounces left in the bottle. This nurse called and they
informed this nurse, "Watch for any vomiting or stomach cramping. After talking with the pt she
doesn't feel like she will be any better than a druggy, wouldn't amount to anything. Pt did state she
wants to die. On call was notified about what happened and pt was placed on Eyeball, FOH, and
supportive status. There was a one time order for 25mg to give by mouth for anxiety.
Consent was given by her mom, Client was placed on Front of House, Eyeball, and
Supportive Status Guardian was contacted regarding the incident 6/16/25 @ 9:20 PM Paint has
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

now been moved from the rec room, in the house, and locked up in the staff room, where clients do
not have access.