ARKANSAS
DEPARTMENT OF

ay —=a¥ SERVICES
Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education

P.O. Box 1437, Slot $140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550

Corrective Action Agreement

Date: 5/18/2023

To: Ben Beasley

Owner Name: Habilitation Center, Inc.
Facility Name: Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF
License #: 233

Mr. Beasley,

This document constitutes a formal Corrective Action Agreement (CAA) agreed upon by
Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF and the Department of Human Services, Division of Child Care and
Early Childhood Education, Placement and Residential Licensing Unit. This CAA will be in effect
for a period of six months from the date of signing by both parties, This agreement may be
extended beyond six months should DHS determine any non-compliance with the CAA during
the stated corrective action period.

The purpose of this agreement is to gain and maintain a high degree of compliance with
licensing requirements. The following non-compliance areas have been cited during the past
three months:

Minimum Licensing Standards {Residential}: Section 109-Unprofessional Conduct

109.1.g Unprofessional conduct in the practice of child welfare activities shall include without
limitation: (g) Engaging in behavior that could be viewed as sexual, dangerous, exploitative,
or physically harmful to children.

¢ Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF received a citation on the following date regarding the
inappropriate discipline given to a resident based on their age, development, and
history.

eee
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov


© 03/03/2023- Staff pushed residents several times during the outbreak of
multiple resident altercations on the unit.

" Review of camera footage revealed that a male staff on the unit had
pushed residents aggressively multiple times during several altercations
that occurred between the residents. A resident can be seen being
pushed into a table, another one into a corner, and a third being pushed
over the back of a couch and landing on the other side.

Minimum Licensing Standards (Residential): Section 905-Behavior Management

905.3 Discipline shall be appropriate to the child's age, development, and history.

e Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF received a citation on the following date regarding the
inappropriate discipline given to a resident based on their age, development, and
history.

oO 03/13/2023- A ten-year-old resident was disciplined by standing in the corner
of the dayroom in the evening for approximately two hours and twenty-five
minutes.

* Camera review of the incident revealed that the resident was directed
into the corner by the staff supervisor at approximately 7:15pm. The
resident then stayed in the corner with staff siting at a table in front of
the corner. The resident did come out of the corner 2-3 times for a
bathroom break and to quickly complete his nighttime chore, but then
would immediately return to the corner. At one point staff makes the
resident turn his head around and face the corner with his nose against
the wall for almost an hour.

905.4.f The following disciplinary actions shall not be used: (f} Restriction to a dark room or
area.

¢ Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF received a citation on the following date regarding
inappropriate behavior management.

© 03/13/2023- Camera review of the incident revealed that the resident was
directed into the corner by the staff supervisor for approximately two hours
and twenty-five minutes.

" The resident can be seen directed to the corner at approximately
7:15pm. The resident then stayed in the corner with staff siting at a table
in front of the corner. The resident did come out of the corner 2-3 times
for a bathroom break and to quickly complete his nighttime chore, but



then would immediately return to the corner. At one point staff makes
the resident turn his head around and face the corner with his nose
against the wall for almost an hour

905.4.g The following disciplinary actions shall not be used: (g) Physical injury or threat of
bodily harm.

¢ Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF received a citation on the following date regarding
inappropriate behavior management.

© 03/17/2023- Camera review of an incident revealed that a staff member had
aggressively walked towards a resident in a threatening manner and bumped
him with her stomach knocking him off balance as she directed him back to the
corner, he had been standing in for over two hours.

«The resident can be seen being allowed to leave the corner he had been
standing in for a significant amount of time by a male staff. The resident
walks to the doorway of his bedroom hall then can be seen turning
around and saying something to the female staff on the unit. The female
staff can be seen pointing towards the corner and begins to walk quickly
towards the resident with a broom in her hand. The resident looks
towards the ground and turns sideways as the staff begins bumping into
him with her stomach, knocking him off balance, and directing him back
inte the corner. The resident then stands back in the corner for
approximately another hour before being allowed to go to bed.

907.2 Child caring staff shall be responsible for providing the level of supervision, care, and

treatment necessary to ensure the safety and well-being of each child at the facility, taking

into account the child’s age, individual differences and abilities, surrounding circumstances,
hazards and risk.

° Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF received citations on the following date regarding the
failure of staff to provide adequate supervision to residents.

o 01/03/2023- Camera review revealed that a resident was able to enter an
unlocked staff office and return to her room with contraband.

* While in the bedroom with the contraband the resident used the
contraband, scissors, to self-harm. Approximately eleven minutes after
obtaining the scissors the resident was seen by staff, but then the
resident returned to her room and was not discovered by her peers until



twenty-nine minutes later. The peers notified staff of the situation and
they sought immediate medical attention for the resident.
o 01/17/2023- Review of an incident submitted to the licensing unit revealed
that a resident had ingested Pine-sol cleaner.

* After the resident’s peer had just completed his nightly chore he left
Pine-Sol cleaner openly accessible on the table of the dayroom. No staff
were supervising the cleaning chemicals left on the table, so the resident
approached the table and swallowed an estimated two ounces of the
chemical.

© 03/03/2023- Review of camera footage revealed that staff failed to provide
adequate supervision of residents to ensure their safety and well-being during a
multiple resident altercation.

" The staff viewed on camera during the several altercations that took
place on the unit, can be seen being slow to intervene, failing to de-
escalate, and they did not remove the remaining residents from the
situation to avoid an escalation.

© 03/13/2023- Staff failed to ensure the safety and well-being of residents when
they left a staff office door unlocked.

" Review of the camera footage of a separate issue, it was seen that staff
were sitting at a day room table and leaving their doer to their office
open. Resident’s can be seen entering and leaving the office multiple
times without any supervision from staff.

The agency is required to complete the following:

* The Licensing Unit wiil present an intent training for all facility staff regarding the
Minimum Licensing Standards sections 109, 110, and all of 900. All staff that is
unavailable during the meeting shall be trained by management using the slideshow
provided by the Licensing Unit and documentation of all staff trained shall be provided
to the Licensing Unit.

© The facility shall conduct a minimum of once per week camera reviews of three separate
locations on the facility to ensure that staff are appropriately supervising residents.
Documentation of date, time, area viewed, and a brief description of what was reviewed
shall be logged by the reviewer. The documentation of weekly checks shall be provided
to the Licensing Specialist monthly for review.

e If at any time during the course of this corrective action agreement, a discovery is made
of a staff failing to supervise or participating in inappropriate behavior management, the
facility will report it to the Licensing Unit by the next business day. The report shall
include the incident date, incident time, name of staff/residents involved, brief
description of the incident, date it was discovered by facility management and any
corrective measures taken to correct the issues.



e The facility shall retrain all child caring staff on their behavior management policy
including topics surrounding acceptable forms of discipline by 6/30/2023 and provide
sign in sheets of all staff trained to the Licensing Specialist.

¢ The facility management shall continue their daily leadership rounding program to
ensure all doors required to be locked are secured, looking for safety concerns, and any
environment of care issues. These walkthroughs shall be documented, noting any
concerns, retained, and available to the licensing specialist upon request.

e The facility shail proceed with training all direct care staff on the topics of Nurtured
Heart Approach, Improving the Milieu, De-escalation with Highly Aggressive Patients,
and Processing with our Clients. The facility shall notify the licensing unit when all direct
care staff have completed the above courses.

This document is intended to clarify any outstanding issues and to reduce the risk of
misunderstanding or miscommunication.

Please be advised that any serious non-compliance cited during this corrective action period
may result in a recommendation for adverse action on the license, Any serious violation of
this corrective action plan will result in recommendation for adverse action on the license.

Please do not hesitate to contact the Placement and Residential Licensing Unit if you have any
questions or concerns regarding ongoing compliance with this agreement or any other licensing

requirement.

The signature of the licensee constitutes full acceptance of the provisions of this agreement.

78;
Owner/ Administrator/Agency Representative Date
Licensing Specialist Date

Sylgpoaas

Licensing Supervisor