Inspection of Care Summary
Facility Tour:
Upon arrival at the facility, AFMC staff was promptly greeted at the entrance by a Youth Home,
Incorporated staff member. AFMC was immediately taken to a conference room where they were met by
the Unit Manager. AFMC staff was given the completed and signed consent form listing approval for
access to the AFMC portal.
A tour of the facility was completed with the Unit Manager. Several staff members were observed
interacting calmly with clients throughout the facility. All clients were in class at the school building.
Staff were able to answer questions regarding the facility. There were four dormitories that were toured
along with the school building, cafeteria, gymnasium, and outside grounds. The following is a list of
environmental observations found during the facility tour.
• Sturgis House had trash scattered throughout the dormitory. Otherwise, there were no concerns
noted.
• Chestnut House had trash scattered throughout the dormitory. Otherwise, there were no concerns
noted.
• Rose House was clean and well organized. The Carpet in dormitory had recently been replaced
with new vinyl flooring two months ago when AFMC was on site. New vinyl flooring was noted
to be separating from the subfloor and “bubbling” throughout the building. In the day room the
floor has separated to the point the door was hard to open as the vinyl flooring was blocking the
door. This was noted as a trip hazard. Facility staff had called the company that had installed the
flooring before AFMC staff left.
• Mabee House was clean and well organized. No concerns noted.
• School was in session. The school building was noted to be extremely clean, and classrooms were
very well organized. AFMC staff noted one classroom had a staff member that was sitting in the
back of the class eating food from an outside restaurant. This was pointed out to the Unit
Manager who reported it to the supervisor. The Unit Manager stated they do not allow staff to eat
outside food in front of the clients as this can trigger behaviors in the clients since they are not
allowed to have food in the classroom or from outside restaurants. No other issues noted during
the tour of this building.
• Cafeteria was noted to be extremely clean. No concerns noted.
• Gymnasium was noted to be a very large space and was clean and well organized.
• The outside grounds were noted to be clean and well-manicured. AFMC staff did observe two
large trash cans behind the Rose House that had been knocked over with trash and food items
scattered across the grounds. This appeared to be from wild animals knocking over the cans.
Facility Review-Policies and Procedures:
Upon review of the site’s policies and procedures, the following deficiencies were noted:
Regulation Deficiency Statement Reviewer Notes
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: HR records did not indicate training The provider lacked evidence that all
221.804; CFR 42 in the use of nonphysical intervention direct care staff are trained in the use
482.130, 483.376 skills, such as de-escalation on an of nonphysical intervention skills,
annual basis. such as de-escalation, mediation
conflict resolution, active listening,
and verbal and observational
methods, to prevent emergency safety
situations on an annual basis.
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: HR records did not indicate that all The provider lacked evidence that all
221.804; CFR 42 direct care personnel have ongoing direct care personnel have ongoing
482.130, 483.376 education, training, and demonstrated education, training, and demonstrated
knowledge of techniques to identify knowledge of techniques to identify
Youth Home, Incorporated Final IOC Report 2 | P ag e

staff and resident behaviors that may staff and resident behaviors, events
trigger an emergency safety situation and environmental factors that may
semi-annually. trigger emergency safety situations
Medicaid IP Sec. 2; There is no documentation in the HR The provider lacked evidence that all
CFR 42 482.130, records that all direct care personnel direct care personnel are trained, as
483.376 are trained in facility's Restraint and well as demonstrate competency, in
Seclusion policy. facility's Restraint and Seclusion
policy and appropriate procedures to
be used in Restraint and Seclusion
interventions.
Personnel Records- Licenses, Certifications, Training:
There was a total of 29 personnel records requested, seven (26%) professional staff and 22 (26%)
paraprofessional staff. During the review of the personnel records, the following deficiencies were noted:
Personnel Rule Credential Outcome Reviewer Notes
Record Validated
Number
SR013583 Medicaid IP Sec. 2: Restraint and Failed The last completed annual training
221.804; 42 CFR Seclusion was completed on 10/06/2021 and
482.130, 483.376 Training (CPI) the six-month refresher was last
completed on 04/20/2022.
Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality of Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list
was requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was
completed. There was no active FFS Medicaid clients. The following is a summary of findings and noted
deficiencies.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
No active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no client interviews
were conducted.
Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
No active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no clinical records
reviewed.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
During the facility tour, staff and clients were observed in the classroom setting. Staff were calmly
interacting and engaged with clients.
Medication Pass:
No active FFS Medicaid clients received medications during medication pass. Due to the observation of
non-Medicaid clients not being complaint with the HIPAA minimal necessary rule, no medication pass
was observed. AFMC RN visited with the medication nurse who was able to show AFMC RN the facility
policies and procedures regarding medication administration, narcotic count/reconciliation/handling, and
medication discrepancies. The tour of the medication room was completed with the medication nurse. An
open vial of TB skin test was observed in medication refrigerator in nurse's station that was not labeled
with date of opening and with nurse's initials.
Youth Home, Incorporated Final IOC Report 3 | P ag e

Corrective Action Plan:
The CAP must be completed within 30 calendar days of the date of the email notice of the IOC report
available for review. The IOC Report and Request for Corrective Action can be accessed through the link
to AccessPoint, provided via email.
*For more details on the individual related deficiencies, please log into the portal.
Respectfully,
AFMC Inspection Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
Youth Home, Incorporated Final IOC Report 4 | P ag e