Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 5/9/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 5/9/2023
Facility Name: Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF
Facility Number: 233
Facility Type:
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: , Parent Placement, DOB: ) was
sent to the Dallas County Medical Center for assessment of a head injury. He was picked up
and dropped by a peer while standing in line to leave the living unit. When he was dropped
to the floor, he struck the back of his head on the floor. On-site nursing assessed and
referred to DCMC as a precautionary measure and for further assessment. DCMC
determined that no treatment was necessary. He was released to return to the facility.
Interim Action Narrative:
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Client was sent to the Dallas County Medical Center for
assessment of a head injury. He was picked up and dropped by a peer while standing in line
to leave the living unit. When he was dropped to the floor, he struck the back of his head on
the floor. On-site nursing assessed and referred to DCMC as a precautionary measure and
for further assessment. DCMC determined that no treatment was necessary. He was
released to return to the facility. Facility visited 5/10/23 and video reviewed of this incident.
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

The incident occurred in Pine Ridge. 15 clients are seen lined up against the wall seemingly
waiting to exit Pine Ridge. Two staff members seen initially. Third staff is outside of the
doorway, seen later entering Pine Ridge after incident. Towards the back of the line, a peer
is seen attempting to pick up and lift client This does not appear to be aggressive. It
appears that is too heavy for peer to pick up. Peer seems to successfully elevate in the
air then drops him. This appears to be accidental. landed on his back and his head hits
the wall. grabs the back of his head. 3 staff immediately tend to . goes to the
bathroom and is given paper towel for bleeding. 's back of head is seen in video bloody. A
nurse is seen entering Pine Ridge 4 minutes later. Nurse escorts out of Pine Ridge.