521 Visit Compliance Report

Licensee: Youth Home, Inc.

Facility Number: 128

Licensee Address: 20400 COLONEL GLENN ROAD
LITTLE ROCK AR 72210

Licensing Specialist: Kendra Slade
Person In Charge: Mary Keily
Record Visit Date: 1/29/2025
Home Visit Date: 1/29/2025

Purpose of Visit: Subsequent Building and Grounds

Regulations Out of Compliance:
Regulations Needing Technical Assistance:
Regulation Not Applicable:

Regulations Not Correctable:

Narrative:

Time of visit: 12:00 pm to 12:45 pm

www.arkansas.gov/dhs. : Se
Serving more than one million Arkansans each eal :

Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.508.8910 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550

“Page 1 of 3


Census: 46
Program Coordinator Slade was escorted throughout the PRTFs by two Youth Home staff members.

The following areas were observed in each house: milieu/dayroom, kitchen/dining area, laundry room,
game/quiet room, bedrooms, and bathrooms.

Walking to the different houses, Program Coordinator observed the grounds were maintained, There were
leaves on the grounds, parked cars and/or a van parked near each house, and some houses had outdoor
greeting signs. Most of the residents were at school during the walkthrough of the houses.

Mabee House: Ratio 1:1, there was a resident on shut down. The resident and staff member were sitting in the
milieu/dayroom area. She appeared to be working on schoolwork. Bedrooms were organized and maintained.
Bathrooms were clean. Program Coordinator noticed the bathroom doors had a slide like device (color
changes) for residents to indicate if the bathroom is occupied.

Chestnut House: There were no residents present during the walkthrough. There were two staff members
present. One staff member appeared to be completing paperwork and the other staff member communicated
with Program Coordinating while walking through the house. Some bedrooms were cleaner than others. The
bathrooms were clean, and no odor was detected.

Sturgis House: Ratio 2:3, the residents and staff members were eating lunch. Per staff, the residents were at
the house for one of the following: shut down, physical aggression, or house restriction. The bathrooms were
clean, and some bedrooms were cleaner than others.

Rose House: Ratio 1:3, two residents were on house restriction and the other resident was on medical. The
resident on medical was in a room off to the side of the milieu. The staff member was sitting at a table facing
the bedroom hall. There was a resident in her bedroom due to licensing being in the building and the other
resident was down the hall in the bathroom.

Program Coordinator observed the bathrooms that were unlocked. These bedrooms belonged to the residents
that were in the house. The residents’ bedrooms were clean and organized and the bathrooms were clean also.

Napier House: No residents were present during the walkthrough. Each bedroom and bathroom were clean.
There were two staff members present during the walkthrough. One staff member was in the staff's office and
the other staff member was eating lunch at the workstation facing the resident’s bedrooms. Ms. Betty (staff
member) reported that the residents cook a meal once a week with staff for life skills.

All areas observed were safe and in good repair. The grounds were clean and free of safety hazards.

Provider Comments:

Wwww.arkansas.govidhs.__ : ee — oe “ eee
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Seer nt Een eS Page 2 0f 3


CCL Staff Signature : Date: 1/29/2025

Provider Signature : Date: 1/29/2025

eh”

www.arkansas.gov/dhs : : a : : a |.
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Ses ; : : [EEE Page 3 of 3