Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 3/14/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 3/15/2023
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Facility Type: Residential
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for DOB:
client in our PRTF program resides in Mabee Incident Date/Time: 03/14/2023
4:04pm Location: Mabee Incident Description: Suicidal, Attempted Runaway, Threat to
Safety Staff Involved: Anthony White, Ben Malone, Kelton Johnson, Terrence McDaniel,
Matthew Chrysler-nurse, Joseph Davis-nurse, Carlos Shavers Events Leading: Client upset
about freeze status. Came charging up the hallway into the milieu yelling that she was
"tired of this shit." Client attempted to kick the front door open. Staff approached offering
verbal support. Yelling and swearing continued. After a therapist entered the unit, client
successfully kicked the front door open. 4:02pm Personal Restraint: Client placed in
personal restraint. Client physically resisted against restraint as she was escorted to the
seclusion area for safe supervision while de-escalating. 4:03pm Personal Restraint End:
restraint ended as seclusion area was reached. Client attempted to use her legs to climb up
against walls to push off. 4:04pm Locked Seclusion: Client placed in locked seclusion. Client
observed to strike the wall of the seclusion room with significant force with her fist. Staff
offered verbal support. Client produced pen that had fallen off staff's lanyard during
restraint. 4:05pm Locked Seclusion End: Locked seclusion ended as client began gesturing
with pen with her back to staff as though she was self harming. Staff asked for the pen, and
client refused. staff immediately entered seclusion room. 4:06pm Personal Restraint: Client
placed in restraint as pen was retrieved. 4:07pm Personal Restraint End: Restraint ended as
staff attempted to resume seclusion. 4:08pm Locked Seclusion: Locked seclusion began at
this time. Staff attempted to offer verbal support. Client observed to remove her sweatshirt
and tie it around her neck. 4:09pm Locked Seclusion End: Locked seclusion ended at this
time as staff immediately entered to remove the sweatshirt and maintain safety. Auxilliary
staff alerted to retrieve a different shirt for client at this time. 4:10pm Unlocked Seclusion:
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Client placed in unlocked seclusion at this time as she attempted to force her way out this
area without permission and de-escalation. Staff used their bodies to prevent her from
leaving the seclusion room while providing verbal support. During this time client is
observed to strike the wall of the seclusion room door with her fist. Client observed to say "I
don't fucking care." and "I don't want to fucking be here." 4:13pm Unlocked Seclusion
End: Client was able to force her way out of the seclusion room, and she agreed to sit with
staff and talk. Unlocked Seclusion ended at this time. Patient Debriefing date/time:
03/14/2023 4:20pm: Client was given an option of talking to staff are going back to
seclusion. Client chose to come out and talk with staff. Client was angry but willing to
accept her consequences. Client said that she was not angry at staff anymore. Nursing
Assessment date/time: 03/14/2023 4:15pm: Client reportedly in personal restraint. Upon my
arrival, client was in seclusion room struggling with staff. Client agreed to sit and process
with staff. Client began to calm down as she was processing with staff. Complains of right
hand injury, 3rd-5th digits knuckles noted to be swollen, bruised and reddened. Client
struck the wall with her right hand. Denies numbness/tingling, has full/active ROM,
capillary refill <3 seconds. Ice pack refused, PRN OTC pain relief refused. Client denies
other pain/injury from this incident. Client has no other obvious injury from this incident.
Client was offered icepack and PRN medications again, refused. Encouraged client to use
medication/icepack for pain/swelling. No other needs identified now, will continue to
monitor. 2nd Nursing Assessment date/time: 03/14/2023 4:16pm: Client refused PRN OTC
medication and icepack. Will continue to monitor. Guardian was notified on 03/14/23 at
4:20pm and 4:40pm. Was able to get a hold of her mother on the 2nd call. first call voicemail
left.
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was assessed by nursing. She refused OTC medication
and the ice pack.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing Specialist will schedule to review camera footage and
inquire about safety precautions. 3/16/2023, Licensing Specialist informed that resident was
evaluated at AR Children's Hospital and transferred to Methodist Acute. Licensing
Specialist reviewed camera footage.