August 19, 2024
Centers For Youth and Families, Inc
6501 W 12th St
Little Rock, AR 72204-1511
The Division of Provider Services and Quality Assurance (DPSQA) of the Arkansas Department of Human
Services has contracted with Arkansas Foundation for Medical Care (AFMC) to perform Inspections of Care
(IOC) for Inpatient Psychiatric Services for Under 21. The Medicaid Manual for Inpatient Psychiatric Services
for Under Age 21 was used in the completion of this report.
Observations and any deficiencies noted are listed below for the inspection conducted at the following service
site on the following date:
Centers For Youth and Families, Inc
Provider Medicaid ID:
Onsite Inspection Date: August 15, 2024
Onsite Inspection Time: 8:19 AM
A summary of the inspection and any deficiencies noted are outlined below.
The provider must submit a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) designed to correct any deficiency noted in the
written report of the IOC. Accordingly, you must complete and submit to AFMC a Corrective Action Plan for
each deficiency noted. The Corrective Action Plan must state with specificity the:
(a) Corrective action to be taken.
(b) Person(s) responsible for implementing and maintaining the corrective action; and
(c) Completion date or anticipated completion date for each corrective action.
The CAP must be completed within 30 calendar days of the date of the email notice of the IOC report. Please
follow the link provided in the email notice to submit either a Reconsideration or CAP for the inspection, all via
AccessPoint.
The contractor (AFMC) will:
(a) Review the Corrective Action Plan.
(b) Determine whether the Corrective Action Plan is sufficient to credibly assure future compliance; and
(c) Provide the Corrective Action Plan to the Division of Provider Services and Quality Assurance (DPSQA).
Please see § 160 of the Medicaid Manual for an explanation of your rights to administrative reconsideration and
appeal. Additionally, the imposition of this Corrective Action Plan does not prevent the Department of Human
Services from prescribing additional remedial actions as may be necessary.

Inspection of Care Summary
Facility Tour:
Upon arrival at the facility, AFMC staff was promptly greeted at the entrance by a Centers for Youth and
Families receptionist in the main lobby. AFMC staff signed the visitor log and were immediately taken to a
conference room where they were met by the Regulatory Compliance Officer and the Clinical Service Director.
AFMC staff was given the completed and signed consent form listing approval for access to the AFMC portal.
Facility staff were given the Document Request Form and AFMC staff discussed the requirements for the
Inspection of Care.
A tour of the facility was completed with the Regulatory Compliance Officer, the Clinical Service Director, and
Director of Nursing Consultant. There are two buildings that house the under 21 years of age population. The
first building, Elizabeth Mitchell Adolescent Center (EMAC), houses the older adolescent girls aged 12 to 18
years of age. The second building, Elizabeth Mitchell Children’s Center (EMCC), houses the younger male and
female children aged 5 to 14 years old. Both buildings have four units each that house the clients. Areas toured
included the client units including the clients’ rooms and in room bathrooms and showers, the common areas
that are used for group activities and meals, community bathrooms, outside area, classrooms, and the medication
rooms.
The facility environment was clean, well-organized, and appeared to be in good repair. Staff members were
observed interacting calmly with clients throughout the facility. Staff were able to answer questions regarding
the facility. No issues were noted.
Facility Review – Policies and Procedures:
Upon review of the site’s policies, procedures, and certification requirements, the following deficiencies were
noted:
Regulation Deficiency Statement Reviewer Notes
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: HR records did not indicate that all During the review of personnel records, it was
CFR 42 482.130, direct care personnel are currently noted that not all staff had evidence that they are
483.376 certified in cardiopulmonary currently certified in cardiopulmonary
resuscitation (CPR). resuscitation (CPR).
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: There is no documentation in the HR During the review of personnel records, it was
CFR 42 482.130, records that all direct care personnel noted that not all direct care personnel are trained,
483.376 are trained in facility's Restraint and as well as demonstrate competency, in facility's
Seclusion policy. Restraint and Seclusion policy and appropriate
procedures to be used in Restraint and Seclusion
interventions.
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: HR records did not indicate that all During the review of personnel records, it was
221.804 direct care personnel have ongoing noted that not all direct care personnel have
CFR 42 482.130, education, training, and demonstrated ongoing education, training, and demonstrated
483.376 knowledge of techniques to identify knowledge of techniques to identify staff and
staff and resident behaviors that may resident behaviors, events and environmental
trigger an emergency safety situation factors that may trigger emergency safety
semi-annually. situations on a semi-annual basis.
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: HR records did not indicate training During the review of personnel records, it was
221.804 in the use of nonphysical intervention noted that not all direct care staff are trained in the
CFR 42 482.130, skills, such as de-escalation on an use of nonphysical intervention skills, such as de-
483.376 annual basis. escalation, mediation conflict resolution, active
listening, and verbal and observational methods,
to prevent emergency safety situations on an
annual basis.
Centers For Youth and Families, Inc – Little Rock, AR – IOC Report 2 | P ag e

Personnel Records – Licenses, Certifications, Training:
There was a total of 29 personnel records reviewed, 7 (25%) professional and 21 (25%) paraprofessional.
During the review of the personnel records, the following deficiencies were noted:
Personnel Rule Credential Validated Outcome Reviewer Notes
Record Number
SR017814 Medicaid IP Sec. 2: CPR training Failed No file received.
221.804C
SR017798 Medicaid IP Sec. 2: Restraint and Seclusion Failed No file received.
221.804 Training (CPI)
CFR 42 482.130, 483.376
Personnel Records – Licenses, Certifications, Training Observations:
The provider submitted the letter of resignation for SR017810; therefore, they did not have any training available
for review.
Observations:
AFMC staff reviewed the final document request form with the Regulatory Compliance Officer and the Clinical
Service Director at the completion of the on-site Inspection of Care. The provider signed the acknowledgement
of manual requirements that were made available in the provider’s policy and procedures. AFMC staff explained
that these findings were preliminary and there was still an off-site portion to be completed.
Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality-of-Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list was
requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was completed. The
following is a summary of findings and noted deficiencies.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no client interviews
were conducted.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
Staff and clients were observed throughout the facility in the educational classroom setting and in organized
group activities. Clients were engaged in schoolwork and activities. Staff were calmly interacting with clients
and providing a therapeutic environment that was conducive for learning and treatment therapies.
Medication Pass:
No active FFS Medicaid clients received medications during a medication pass while AFMC staff was onsite.
Due to the observation of non-Medicaid clients not being complaint with the HIPAA minimal necessary rule, no
medication pass was observed. AFMC RN visited with the facility medication nurse who was able to show
AFMC RN the facility policies and procedures regarding medication administration, narcotic
count/reconciliation/handling, and medication discrepancies.
Facility nurse was able to verbalize the step-by-step process of medication delivery including the demonstration
of the five rights of medication administration, documentation of medication delivery, verification of client
taking medication including mouth/cheek checks, and how clients are educated about each medication. The
facility nurse also verbalized the process utilized when a client refuses medication. Tour of medication room
completed no discrepancies with medication storage, cleanliness of medication room, and knowledge of
medication dispensing found.
Centers For Youth and Families, Inc – Little Rock, AR – IOC Report 3 | P ag e

Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no clinical records
reviews were conducted.
Corrective Action Plan:
The CAP must be completed within 30 calendar days of the date of the email notice of the IOC reports.
Additionally, any findings that were noted in any Health and Safety Inspection(s), which are governed by
certification rules and requirements, are shared with DPSQA and may result in other remedial actions, by
DPSQA, if warranted.
*For more details on the individual related deficiencies, please log into the portal.
Respectfully,
Inspection of Care Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
Centers For Youth and Families, Inc – Little Rock, AR – IOC Report 4 | P ag e