September 20, 2024
Habilitation Center, LLC
1810 Industrial Dr
Fordyce, AR 71742-7110
The Division of Provider Services and Quality Assurance (DPSQA) of the Arkansas Department of Human
Services has contracted with Arkansas Foundation for Medical Care (AFMC) to perform Inspections of Care
(IOC) for Inpatient Psychiatric Services for Under 21. The Medicaid Manual for Inpatient Psychiatric Services
for Under Age 21 was used in the completion of this report.
Observations and any deficiencies noted are listed below for the inspection conducted at the following service
site on the following date:
Habilitation Center, LLC
Provider Medicaid ID:
Onsite Inspection Date: September 16, 2024
Onsite Inspection Time: 9:04 AM
A summary of the inspection and any deficiencies noted are outlined below.
The provider must submit a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) designed to correct any deficiency noted in the
written report of the IOC. Accordingly, you must complete and submit to AFMC a Corrective Action Plan for
each deficiency noted. The Corrective Action Plan must state with specificity the:
(a) Corrective action to be taken.
(b) Person(s) responsible for implementing and maintaining the corrective action; and
(c) Completion date or anticipated completion date for each corrective action.
The CAP must be completed within 30 calendar days of the date of the email notice of the IOC report. Please
follow the link provided in the email notice to submit either a Reconsideration or CAP for the inspection, all via
AccessPoint.
The contractor (AFMC) will:
(a) Review the Corrective Action Plan.
(b) Determine whether the Corrective Action Plan is sufficient to credibly assure future compliance; and
(c) Provide the Corrective Action Plan to the Division of Provider Services and Quality Assurance (DPSQA).
Please see § 160 of the Medicaid Manual for an explanation of your rights to administrative reconsideration and
appeal. Additionally, the imposition of this Corrective Action Plan does not prevent the Department of Human
Services from prescribing additional remedial actions as may be necessary.

Inspection of Care Summary
Facility Tour:
Upon arrival at the facility, AFMC staff were promptly greeted at the entrance by a Habilitation Center, LLC
receptionist in the main lobby. AFMC staff signed the visitor log. AFMC staff were immediately taken to a
conference room where they were met by the Chief Operations Officer and the Director of Risk Management.
AFMC staff was given the completed and signed consent form listing approval for access to the AFMC portal.
Facility staff were given the Document Request Form and AFMC staff discussed the requirements for the
Inspection of Care.
A tour of the facility was completed with the Chief Operations Officer and the Director of Risk Management.
Areas toured included multiple units and houses on the upper and lower campus, nurses station including the
medication room, cafeteria, gymnasium, several outdoor courtyards, and school building that houses the
educational classrooms. The facility environment was extremely clean, well-organized, and appeared to be in
good repair. Therapeutic group activities and classes were in session. There were no immediate issues noted
during the facility tour. Staff were able to answer questions regarding the facility.
There were two units, Eagle Hall and Kangaroo Hall, in the main building on the upper campus that were both
on quarantine precautions until September 18, 2024. Both units had 2 clients each that had tested positive for
COVID-19. Eagle Hall had 17 clients quarantined and Kangaroo Hall had 12 clients quarantined. AFMC staff
toured both units with facility staff and were required to wear surgical masks while on the unit. Outside both
units there are masks at the central nurses’ station was an area where the mask was available as well as an area
where to dispose of the mask and hand sanitizer was available for use. All clients remain in the unit for all
educational classes, activities, and meals except for some outdoor activities so clients can get exercise and fresh
air. When these units are outside, they are the only unit in the area.
AFMC staff noted structural improvements were being made throughout the campus including fresh and touch-
up paint on unit walls, new tile flooring in the cafeteria, new Tuff Grip Epoxy surfaces added to bathroom walls
and floors, and exterior Smart Siding adding to interior walls of houses covering the cinder block walls for
durability and aesthetics.
Habilitation Center has also built a brand new house called Success House where female clients that are within
30 days of discharge can move into to get ready to transition out of the facility. Here they have a few more
privileges and freedom as well as they learn Life Skills, how to budget finances, and are even taught how to
cook meals. Currently, the provider is building a house for male clients to provide this same level of care.
Facility Review – Policies and Procedures:
Upon review of the site’s policies, procedures, and certification requirements, the following deficiencies were
noted:
Regulation Deficiency Statement Reviewer Notes
Medicaid IP Sec. 2; There is no documentation in the HR The provider's records lacked evidence that all
42 CFR 482.130, records that all direct care personnel are direct care personnel are trained, as well as
483.376 trained in facility's Restraint and demonstrate competency, in facility's Restraint
Seclusion policy. and Seclusion policy and appropriate
procedures to be used in Restraint and
Seclusion interventions.
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: The facility has not submitted to The attestation letter provided by the provider
221.801 Arkansas Medicaid a Letter of was submitted via fax on July 25, 2024. The
42 CFR 483.374 Attestation that the facility is in standard indicates that if July 21st falls on a
compliance with CMS standards weekend or holiday, the attestation letter is due
regarding the use of Restraint and by the next business day.
Habilitation Center, LLC – Fordyce, AR – IOC Report 2 | P ag e

Seclusion.
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: HR records did not indicate that all direct The provider's records lacked evidence that all
221.804 care personnel have ongoing education, direct care personnel have ongoing education,
42 CFR 482.130, training, and demonstrated knowledge of training, and demonstrated knowledge of
483.376 techniques to identify staff and resident techniques to identify staff and resident
behaviors that may trigger an emergency behaviors, events and environmental factors
safety situation semi-annually. that may trigger emergency safety situations on
a semi-annual basis.
Personnel Records – Licenses, Certifications, Training:
There was a total of 41 records reviewed: 8 (25%) professional staff and 33 (25%) paraprofessional staff. During
the review of the personnel records, the following deficiency was noted.
Personnel Record Rule Credential Reviewer Notes
Number Validated
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: Restraint and SR018054 Training expired April 11, 2024.
221.804 Seclusion
42 CFR 482.130, Training (CPI) SR018068 Training expired April 09, 2024.
483.376
Observations:
AFMC staff reviewed the final document request form with the Chief Operations Officer at the completion of the
on-site Inspection of Care and the provider signed the acknowledgement of manual requirements that were not
made available in the provider’s policy and procedures. AFMC staff explained that these findings were
preliminary and there was still an off-site portion to be completed.
Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality-of-Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list was
requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was completed. The
following is a summary of findings and noted deficiencies.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no client interviews
were conducted.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
Staff and clients were observed throughout the facility in the classroom setting in the school unit and in organized
group activities throughout the campus. Clients were engaged in schoolwork and activities. Two staff members
were noted to be on their phone in two separate classrooms. Otherwise, staff were calmly interacting with clients
and providing a therapeutic environment that was conducive for learning and treatment therapies.
Medication Pass:
No active FFS Medicaid clients received medications during medication pass. Due to the observation of non-
Medicaid clients not being complaint with the HIPAA minimal necessary rule, no medication pass was
observed. AFMC RN visited with the facility’s medication nurse who was able to show AFMC RN the facility
policies and procedures regarding medication administration, count, reconciliation, and handling of controlled
substances, and medication discrepancies.
The tour of the medication room was completed with the facility’s medication nurse. The medication room was
clean and well-organized in a way to provide safety in medication administration. There was a vial of tuberculin
skin test found to be open in the medication refrigerator. The vial was not labeled with the date it was opened or
with the initials of the nurse who opened it. This was reported immediately to the Chief Operating Officer and
Habilitation Center, LLC – Fordyce, AR – IOC Report 3 | P ag e

the Director of Risk Management who stated they would take care of having the opened, unlabeled vial removed
and educating the nursing staff on properly labeling multi-dose vials. No other issues were noted during the
medication room tour.
Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no clinical records
reviews were conducted.
Corrective Action Plan:
The CAP must be completed within 30 calendar days of the date of the email notice of the IOC reports.
Additionally, any findings that were noted in any Health and Safety Inspection(s), which are governed by
certification rules and requirements, are shared with DPSQA and may result in other remedial actions, by
DPSQA, if warranted.
*For more details on the individual related deficiencies, please log into the portal.
Respectfully,
Inspection of Care Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
Habilitation Center, LLC – Fordyce, AR – IOC Report 4 | P ag e