Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 1/30/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 1/31/2023
Facility Name: Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF
Facility Number: 233
Facility Type: Residential
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: (AR, DHS Custody, DOB: ) engaged in a
verbal confrontation with peers. The peers became upset and approached him aggressively.
Staff stood between the patients but a peer punched in the face. Two other peers
joined in the confrontation, displaying physical aggression towards . Staff were able to
separate and de-escalate the patients. Nurse assessment indicates bruising and swelling to
left eye. Tylenol and icepack provided. Referred to DCMC for outpatient x-rays. Diagnostic
report indicates a . He received a referral to Arkansas
Children's Hospital for follow-up treatment. This appointment will be scheduled by ACH.
Interim Action Narrative:
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: On 1/30/23 client was involved in an altercation with a
peer and was punched in the face. X-ray from Dallas Co Medical Center indicated a
to the . Follow up appointment to be scheduled with ACH. Client remains
at facility. Facility visited 2/3/23. Video reviewed from 1/30/23. Staff/client ratio seen in
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

the incident 3:7. Staff used bodies as barriers to intervene between clients in altercation.
Male staff member observed grabbing clients by their shoulders to move them away from
altercation. 2 female staff seen using bodies as barriers between clients in altercation. No
inappropriate holds observed. Staff appeared to be attempting to provide supervision and
care to each child during the incident. Safety Plan and Witness Statements of staff involved
attached to investigation for this case.





Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.508.8910 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
521 Visit Compliance Report
Licensee: Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF
Facility Number: 233
Licensee Address: 1828 INDUSTRIAL DRIVE
FORDYCE AR 71742
Licensing Specialist: Chelsea Vardell
Person In Charge: Chris Butler
Record Visit Date: 3/3/2023
Home Visit Date: 3/3/2023
Purpose of Visit: Special Visit
Regulations Out of Compliance:
Regulation Number: 1. 109. 1 .g
Regulation Description: Unprofessional conduct in the practice of child welfare activities shall include, but not
limited to the following:
Findings Description: Staff aggressively pushed residents several times during the course of an incident that
occurred at Pebble Creek on 1/30/23.
Action Due Date:
Action Due Description:
Comply Date:
Sub Regulation Description:
Regulation Number: 9. 907. 2
Regulation Description: Child caring staff shall be responsible for providing the level of supervision, care, and
treatment necessary to ensure the safety and well-being of each child at the facility, taking into account the child’s
age, individual differences and abilities, surrounding circumstances, hazards and risks.
Findings Description: Three staff failed to ensure the safety and well-being of a resident who was attacked on
the unit by multiple residents.
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 1 of 3

Action Due Date:
Action Due Description:
Comply Date:
Sub Regulation Description:
Regulations Needing Technical Assistance:
Regulation Not Applicable:
Regulations Not Correctable:
Narrative:
On 1/30/23 an incident involving multiple altercations between residents and the serious injury of a resident occurred in the Pebble
Creek Cottage at the facility. Review of the video showed 3 staff members involved. Staff and can be seen slowly
engaging with clients in attempts break up fights involving client and other residents. Once a big fight breaks out, Staff .
can be seen with his hands in his pockets in the middle of the fight and pushing multiple clients. Staff is slow to respond but
does attempt keep clients separate. Staff can be seen using her body as a shield in some instances to try and protect clients. At
no time during the incident did staff attempt to call for help. After further review by licensing, it has been determined that staff
failed to provide adequate supervision to ensure the safety and well-being of the residents and one staff engaged in unprofessional
conduct when he aggressively pushed several residents' multiple times during the incident.
The facility will be cited for 907.2 and 109.1.g.
During the 3/3/23 visit, Millcreek's TCI (Therapeutic Crisis Intervention) instructors were present to view the video. Training for
staff involved in this incident will include Protective Interventions, Proximity, and the use of codes when in a crisis
situation. Discussion occurred around the programming during that time of day during transition. During the discussion, I was
informed that staff are sitting outside the view of the camera at the table working on case notes because it is shift change during the
video. Staff should not all be sitting at the table together; they should be engaging with the residents. If staff need to complete
paperwork, they should be mixed around the common area. Or staff may take turns sitting at the table completing end of the shift
paperwork. If staff realize clients are overly stimulated, they should be actively engaging using the skills learned in training.
Please ensure that all three involved staff are retrained on appropriate interventions when handling an acting out resident prior to
returning to work with any resident at the facility. Documentation of the retraining shall be submitted to the Licensing Unit for
review. This training should include facility protocol regarding de-escalation techniques, to include but not limited to, removing
other residents out of the area of an acting out resident. Training shall be completed as soon as possible. Documentation of the
retraining shall be submitted to the Licensing Unit for review.
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 2 of 3

Provider Comments:
CCL Staff Signature : Date: 3/3/2023
Provider Signature : Date: 3/3/2023
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 3 of 3