Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 2/2/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 2/3/2023
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Facility Type: Residential
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for DOB: Private placement
client in our PRTF program and resides in Chestnut House Incident date/time: 02/02/2023
7:30pm Intervention Type: Locked Seclusion, Unlocked Seclusion Incident Description: Self
Injury (Not Suicidal), Aggressive to Peers, Aggressive to Adults, Excessive Rule Violation,
Threat to Safety, Property Destruction Staff Involved: Stephen Murdock, William Givens,
Darryel Sanders, Ashlee Jackson, Joseph Davis-nurse Events Leading: Pt became upset after
dinner due to being placed on pause due to cursing in line. Pt continued being escalated at
the house when he was asked to take a time out continued cursing and yelling at his peers,
Pt also continued cursing staff out when being redirected to stay in his area, Pt continued
coming in and out of his area throwing things and knocking things off of table. Pt was
asked to take a time out, Pt agreed to taking time out and when pt walked out of his room
he knocked all the hygiene boxes over the milieu. Pt walked to time out room but refused to
give his blanket up after being redirected several of times to give his blanket to staff. Pt then
threw his blanket at staff and continued slamming door to wall and continued making
threatening postures towards staff. 7:30pm Unlocked Seclusion: Pt was placed in unlocked
seclusion due to his unpredictable behavior pt was asked several of times to give his blanket
up pt refused several of times before throwing blanket at staff, Pt also continued slamming
unlocked seclusion door into wall and showing aggressive postures towards staff. 7:31pm
Unlocked Seclusion End: Pt released from locked seclusion due to his unpredictable
behaviors. 7:32pm Locked Seclusion: Pt contiued cursing yelling and wrapped his sweater
around his neck trying to choke himself. 7:33pm Locked Seclusion End: Staff had to remove
sweatshirt from Pt due to Pt self-harming himself. 7:34pm Locked Seclusion: Pt continued
spitting and scratching himself with his watch and began trying to choke himself with his t-
shirt. 7:35pm Locked Seclusion End: Staff had to remove Pt watch, t-shirt, glasses. 7:36pm
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Locked Seclusion: Pt continued cursing yelling punching the wall and glass, Pt also
urinated on floor and continued spitting and scratching himself. 7:51pm Locked Seclusion:
Pt took his pants down walking around seclusion room naked and continued cursing and
yelling at staff. 8:06pm Locked Seclusion: Pt continued yelling out "hey daddy" to staff and
also continued yelling at staff, Also continued trying to force door open as well. 8:21pm
Locked Seclusion: Pt was laid down on seclusion room floor and also relaxing on wall.
8:35pm Locked Seclusion End: Pt process about why he was upset and also was given his
instruction of to contract to clean his urine up and contract to his room to get ready for bed.
Patient Debriefing date/time: 02/02/2023 8:36pm: Pt felt as if he was upset about being
placed on pause and his peers instigating him, Pt feels as if he knew he was upset about
situation it was just hard for him to calm down when he became upset. Pt. Understood why
the intervention took place and agreed to compliance. Nursing Assessment date/time:
02/02/23 8:30pm: Client required locked seclusion for physical aggression towards staff.
Client seen standing shirtless in locked seclusion, biting his right wrist and urinating on the
door/floor. Client smeared and spit blood on the seclusion window. Order obtained to
transfer to acute for treatment/evaluation. Nursing Assessment date/time: 02/02/23
8:38pm: Client released from seclusion. Client has wound to right wrist, no drainage noted.
This was an old wound that was reopened by client biting skin. Wound care provided.
Client denies any other pain/injury from this incident. Client has no other obvious injury,
no redness, bruising, swelling. Client is calm and cooperative, alert and oriented,
respirations even and unlabored. Client mopped the seclusion room floor and went to bed.
Client is resting quietly with eyes closed at 9pm. Guardian was notified by nurse on
02/02/23 at 8:01pm Injuries to staff or client: Client has wound to right wrist, no drainage
noted. This was an old wound that was reopened by client biting skin. Wound care
provided. Client denies any other pain/injury from this incident. Follow-up to the injuries:
Wound care
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was placed in unlocked and locked seclusion. Staff
intervened and took items that could be used to self-harm for resident's safety. Resident was
assessed by nursing and acute placement was ordered.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing Specialist will review camera footage and inquire about
nursing notes. Licensing Specialist reviewed camera footage. No licensing concerns noted.

Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.508.8910 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
521 Visit Compliance Report
Licensee: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Licensee Address: 20400 COLONEL GLENN ROAD
LITTLE ROCK AR 72210
Licensing Specialist: Kendra Rice
Person In Charge: Robbie Lagrone
Record Visit Date: 2/6/2023
Home Visit Date: 2/6/2023
Purpose of Visit: Self Report Visit
Regulations Out of Compliance:
Regulations Needing Technical Assistance:
Regulation Not Applicable:
Regulations Not Correctable:
Narrative:
Time of Visit: 10:45 am to 12:15 pm
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 1 of 3

Census: 35
Licensing Specialist reviewed camera footage for provider reported incident that happened on 2/2/2023.
Licensing Specialist heard staff trying to get resident to comply with taking a time out. Licensing Specialist
observed resident going in and out of the game room and slamming the door up against the wall. When
resident agreed to take a time out, resident took his arm and knocked over the hygiene container to the floor
and walked to the seclusion room.
Resident had his blanket and Licensing Specialist heard staff requested for resident to hand over his blanket.
Ratio 2:1, Licensing Specialist observed resident throwing his blanket outside of the seclusion room on the
floor. Resident was then placed in locked seclusion. Resident took off what appeared to be sweatshirt and put
it around his neck in a resting like position. Resident then appeared to pull the arms of his sweatshirt as
though if he was tightening it around his neck.
Staff entered the seclusion room and removed the sweatshirt from the resident’s possession. Resident got
upset and kicked the door to the seclusion room. Resident removed his t-shirt and rolled the t-shirt up.
Resident placed the t-shirt around his neck and tightened it. Staff entered the seclusion room and removed the
resident’s shirt and watch. Resident slammed the seclusion door and Licensing Specialist heard resident using
foul language toward staff.
Licensing Specialist observed resident standing against the wall by the seclusion door with his arms folded
while talking with staff. Resident took off one sock, played with the sock, and placed the sock into his mouth.
Resident stretched his sock, placed the sock around his neck, and held the sock. Resident removed the his
other sock, placed the sock back in his mouth, and took his sock and started rubbing the sock on the door
window of the seclusion room.
At one point it appeared that resident could of possibly doing something with his arm. Resident was sitting
with his back to the camera so Licensing Specialist was unable to determine what resident was doing, ratio
3:1. Resident threw his sock at the door. Licensing Specialist observed resident walk to the seclusion door and
stood. It appeared that resident had his hands in his pants. Licensing Specialist observed resident pulled down
his pants. From the way the resident was standing in front of the seclusion door, it appeared that resident was
urinating on the floor of the seclusion room. Resident then pulled his pants back up.
Resident pulled down his pants again slaps his butt and began masturbating in front of the seclusion door.
Licensing Specialist observed resident jumping around the seclusion room and continued to masturbate.
Resident was observed pulling up his pants, sitting in the floor with is head down, with his arms folded.
Licensing Specialist was unable to observe what resident was doing while on the floor due to his back being
toward the camera. Licensing Specialist heard resident yelling to come out of seclusion.
Licensing Specialist heard staff processing with resident, ratio 1:1. Licensing Specialist observed the nurse
return to the seclusion door. The nurse and staff were processing with resident, ration 2:1. Resident was able
to contract with staff, locked seclusion ended, and resident went to his room.
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 2 of 3

Licensing Specialist spoke with Mr. Jon, PRTF Lead Unit Manager. Mr. Jon informed Licensing Specialist
that resident is scheduled to be discharged on 2/7/2023. Licensing Specialist did not observed any licensing
concerns on camera review.
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 3 of 3