Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 024061
Date of Incident: 9/18/2024
Date Received: 9/18/2024
Facility Name: United Methodist Children's Home Little Rock Campus
Facility Number: 115
Incident Type: Dual
Report Description: On 9/18 arrived at the RTC. To the
Director, Kaylynn Barrett, the stated, "I guess you know why I am here." The
Director denied knowing a report was made to the regarding one of
our residents and a staff member. reported that
had alleged that grabbed a paper
from her and scratched her with her nails. The Director inquired about the date it happened
and the did not have a date. The Director informed the that
was on the unit self-harming at the moment. Director retrieved from the
unit and escorted her to the Intake room. As we were walking down the hallway,
purposely ran into a male staff member and nudged him aggressively. As she passed the
Consultant, she stated, "What the fuck are you looking at?" The Director let in the
Intake Room and informed the that she would be in the lobby area to wait until
the interview was finished. Not long after the Director sat in the lobby, yellling was heard
from the Intake Room. The came out and stated that she was done. The
Director verbally requested that follow her back to the unit so she could get lunch.
refused to leave and sat in the chair with her arms crossed and a frown on her face.
The Consultant entered the Intake room and attempted to verbally get to return to
the unit. It was observed that had blood running down her arm. The
reported that picked at her arm in front of her and arm began to bleed.
was verbally disrespectful and hostile toward the Consultant and the
Another staff member was called to assist in escorting back to the unit. The
Director lead the to the lobby area where the observed the
Consultant and another BI escorting back to the unit. The reported
that said that she was mad because her mother gave her the jacket that was taken
from her. The Director informed the that the jacket was taken because
was using it to hide self-harm. The informed the Director that the report would
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

be closed out on this date. The requested the licensing agent's name which the
Director did provide. The also interviewed the staff member that had the
allegation. safety plan is for client to be on unit restriction until behavior improves, body
mark checks per shift by nurse to ensure safety, remove items that can cause harm or items
she can hide selfharm from. Suicidal Precautions, no sharps spork watch, finger food tray,
line of sight 24/7
Interim Action Narrative: Staff member was suspsended.
Maltreatment Narrative:
stated that she had a piece of paper and
staff member tried to take the paper from her. She refused to give it and asked why
the staff member wanted it. Staff then grabbed her arm and tried to remove the paper from
her hand and in the process of that the staff member dug her nails into the AVs arm and
hand. AV has fingernail marks/cuts on her arm that are starting to scab over. She did not
say what day this occurred on, but it was recent.
Licensing Narrative: Facility contacted Licensing in regards to this complaint and was
encouraged to enter it in ELS. Program Coordinator reviewed this complaint and will follow
up with the 9/19/2024, Program Coordinator requested more information via
email from and looked up more information in Per report the date of
the allegation is unknown. 9/23/2024, Program Coordinator spoke with and
received permission to contact facility via telephone. informed and emailed
Program Coordinator of case finding. Per case found unsubstantiated. Case
completed.