Division of Provider Services & Quality Assurance
Office of Long-Term Care
P.O. Box 8059, Slot S404, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 032181
Date of Incident: 08/15/2025
Date Received: 08/18/2025
Facility Name: Piney Ridge Treatment Center
Incident Type: DPSQA - Incident & Accident - OLTC
Case Status: Under Review
DPSQA - Incident & Accident - OLTC
Report Description: On 8/15/25 at 1940, the obsidian pod 5 residents were outside in the
large court area with staff member . A resident
walked up to staff and told him a peer was going to self-harm.
Staff then walked over to the peer to check on him, which was on the far side of the court
area. The staff got the resident to stop what he was doing and walk with him where the rest
of the kids were. As staff was walking towards the other residents, he noticed they were on
the opposite side of the fence. The resident and 2 peers all took off running towards the
highway. Supervisor and nursing were called at this time. The residents that were in the
courtyard were taken to the pod. Supervisors and nursing all started running after the 3
residents trying to keep them in sight. When trying to cross the highway, the residents got
out of sight. An unknown truck pulled over and informed nurse that the residents were
spotted about a mile up the road. While the residents were out, they went into neighborhood
market and stole energy drinks. Police were called at 1948. Once officers arrived at the
scene, the resident ran from the police. He ran across the busy road into a bank parking lot.
Due to him running from the police he was cited for fleeing-on foot.
Once
the resident was in police custody and set a court date, he was returned to Yellow Rock
behavioral Health. Residents entered the facility at 2028. Once the resident was returned to
the facility, a gown search was completed to ensure contraband was not brought into the
facility. Resident was assessed for any injuries, none were noted. AOC was notified at 1942.
ADON notified at 1945. Residents will be placed on Elopement precautions for 24 hours to
be reassessed. Residents will be restricted to the pod for 24 hours to be reassessed.
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov