Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 12/22/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 12/27/2023
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for
client in our PRTF program and resides in Chestnut House Incident Report
date/time: 12/22/23 3:00pm Location of Incident: Outdoors on Youth Home campus
Incident Description: Medical Emergency (Trip to ER/Urgent Care), Patient Injury Staff
Involved: Charles Hoof, Ben Malone, Valerie Alvarez Events Leading: Staff and patients
went outside to play in the big field by the basketball court and admin building after coming
back from sonic drinks as an outing. Staff were interacting with patients throwing around a
football to patients in the big field one by one. Patients were excited to run and catch
football passes to get some of their energy out. It was the patients turn to run a route in the
big open field while staff was throwing it to him and one ball in particular went through the
patient's hands and accidentally hit him in his eye while trying to catch it. Nursing
Assessment 1 date/time: 12/22/23 2:40pm: reported to the nursing office after
reportedly being struck in the (R) eye with the football while playing football outside. He
remained playful during the interaction while laughing and stating, "I caught the ball with
my eye". (R) eye appears to be watering and mild erythema noted to sclera. Periorbital
edema and bruising beginning to form around (R) eye. He c/o feeling as if something is in
his (R) eye, feeling of numbness, and blurred vision. Pupil of (L) eye was approximately
5mm in diameter and pupil of (R) eye was approximately 3mm in diameter and do not
appear symmetric. Pupils react to light and accommodation although remain bil unequal.
Extraocular movements appear intact. Gently applied a small cold compress to reduce pain
and swelling. MD notified with order to transport to ACH ER to rule out ocular/orbital
injury. was instructed not to rub, touch, or apply pressure to the eye. Denies any
pressure behind eye, current pain or numbness (reports it has since subsided), halos, flashes
of light, floaters, or tunnel vision. Denies headache, nausea/vomiting, feeling lightheaded
or dizzy. AAOx4. Clear coherent speech. Responds appropriately. Denies photosensitivity.
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Discussed assessment findings with and educated on why we would be sending
him out for further evaluation. He reported he did not want to go to the ER but understood.
Nursing Assessment 2 date/time: 12/22/23 7:00pm: returned from ACH ER: "No
visual deficits, no corneal abrasion. Ice to the right eye 20 minutes on then 20 minutes off as
needed for right eye swelling/pain. Tylenol and Ibuprofen as needed for pain". Guardian
was notified on 12/22/23 at 2:50pm
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was assessed by the nurse and transported to ACH ER
for evaluation.
:
Licensing Narrative: Program Coordinator reviewed provider reported incident for
licensing concerns. Program Coordinator received documentation for this provider reported
incident.