SR018282 The provider requested the Child
Maltreatment on 07/12/24; however, no
outcomes were provided.
241.100B State Criminal SR018275 The provider utilized Global Human
Background SR018284 Resource Research for the background
Check - IP SR018287 check; however, these results are not
Acute Para- SR018289 complete to include the Arkansas State
professional Police database.
SR018282 The provider utilized Verified First for the
SR018286 background check; however, these results
SR018291 are not complete to include the Arkansas
SR018293 State Police database.
SR018295
SR018280 The provider utilized DISA Global
Solutions Inc for the background check;
however, these results are not complete to
include the Arkansas State Police database.
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: CPR training - SR018280 No file received.
221.804; IP Acute
42 CFR 482.130,
483.376
Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality-of-Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list was
requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was completed. The
following is a summary of findings and noted deficiencies.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no client interviews
were conducted.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
Staff and clients were observed in the educational classroom setting. Staff were calmly interacting with clients
and providing a therapeutic environment that was conducive for learning and treatment therapies. Clients were
noted to be engaged in the classroom setting. Staff to client ratio was adequate and followed the facility’s staffing
ratio requirements policy.
Medication Pass:
No active FFS Medicaid clients received medications during a medication pass while AFMC staff was onsite.
Due to the observation of non-Medicaid clients not being complaint with the HIPAA minimal necessary rule, no
medication pass was observed. AFMC RN visited with the facility medication nurse who was able to show
AFMC RN the facility policies and procedures regarding medication administration, count, reconciliation, and
handling of controlled substances, and medication discrepancies.
The facility nurse was able to verbalize the step-by-step process of medication delivery including the
demonstration of the five rights of medication administration, documentation of medication delivery,
verification of client taking medication including mouth/cheek checks, and how clients are educated about each
medication. The facility nurse also verbalized the process utilized when a client refuses medication. The tour of
medication room completed no discrepancies with medication storage, cleanliness of medication room, and
knowledge of medication dispensing found.
Woodridge of Forrest City, LLC – Forrest City, AR – IOC Report 3 | P ag e

Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no clinical records
reviews were conducted.
Corrective Action Plan:
The CAP must be completed within 30 calendar days of the date of the email notice of the IOC reports.
Additionally, any findings that were noted in any Health and Safety Inspection(s), which are governed by
certification rules and requirements, are shared with DPSQA and may result in other remedial actions, by
DPSQA, if warranted.
*For more details on the individual related deficiencies, please log into the portal.
Respectfully,
Inspection of Care Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
Woodridge of Forrest City, LLC – Forrest City, AR – IOC Report 4 | P ag e