cafeteria, heading toward the neighboring house. . Another nurse reported that she
expressed her inability to return to the Youth Home. The nurse effectively soothed her, and
she returned to Mabee House. Upon examination, the patient stated no physical injuries,
and the nurse observed no visible injuries at the time. The patient requested to contact her
parents. Staff confirmed that she contacted her father and explained that she had gone to
the neighbor's house during dinner because she desperately wanted to speak with her
mother and leave the facility. In conversation with the nurse, the patient expressed the need
for more extensive care than what the facility could offer. The nurse informed her that the
provider would review her case the following day to determine if a transfer to acute care was
necessary. The patient took her prescribed nightly medication, including PRN medication,
to alleviate her anxiety. Additionally, due to the patient's unauthorized departure from her
designated area, she will be placed on house restriction, nurse received approval from the
on-call MD. Guardians were notified on 05/02/24 at 10:30am by Residential Clinical
Program Director. was transported Pinnacle Pointe for an acute stay on 05/02/24 and
will not be returning back to Youth Home at this time.
Interim Action Narrative: After staff talked to resident and calmed her down, staff walked
client back to facility. Resident was transported to Pinnacle Pointe for an acute stay on 5/2.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: 5/2/24, Licensing Specialist reviewed Provider Reported Incident for
licensing concerns. While Licensing Specialist was at the facility on a different matter,
Licensing Specialist was informed that the facility was about to transfer this resident to
Pinnacle Pointe for an acute stay. 5/3/24, emailed facility to obtain a copy of the nursing
notes, to inquire about ratio and video footage of incident prior to resident going to
neighbor's house. 5/6/24, uploaded nursing notes to case and reviewed. 5/13/24, emailed
facility to confirm that resident would not be returning to facility after her release from
acute. Facility confirmed resident would not be returning.