March 18, 2024
Youth Home, Incorporated
20400 Colonel Glenn Rd
Little Rock, AR 72210-5323
The Division of Provider Services and Quality Assurance (DPSQA) of the Arkansas Department of Human
Services has contracted with Arkansas Foundation for Medical Care (AFMC) to perform Inspections of Care
(IOC) for Inpatient Psychiatric Services for Under 21. The Medicaid Manual for Inpatient Psychiatric Services
for Under Age 21 was used in the completion of this report.
Observations and any deficiencies noted are listed below for the inspection conducted at the following service
site on the following date:
Youth Home, Incorporated
Provider Medicaid ID:
Onsite Inspection Date: March 13, 2024
Onsite Inspection Time: 8:58 AM
A summary of the inspection and any deficiencies noted are outlined below.
The provider must submit a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) designed to correct any deficiency noted in the
written report of the IOC. Accordingly, you must complete and submit to AFMC a Corrective Action Plan for
each deficiency noted. The Corrective Action Plan must state with specificity the:
(a) Corrective action to be taken.
(b) Person(s) responsible for implementing and maintaining the corrective action; and
(c) Completion date or anticipated completion date for each corrective action.
The CAP must be completed within 30 calendar days of the date of the email notice of the IOC report. Please
follow the link provided in the email notice to submit either a Reconsideration or CAP for the inspection, all via
AccessPoint.
The contractor (AFMC) will:
(a) Review the Corrective Action Plan.
(b) Determine whether the Corrective Action Plan is sufficient to credibly assure future compliance; and
(c) Provide the Corrective Action Plan to the Division of Provider Services and Quality Assurance (DPSQA).
Please see § 160 of the Medicaid Manual for an explanation of your rights to administrative reconsideration and
appeal. Additionally, the imposition of this Corrective Action Plan does not prevent the Department of Human
Services from prescribing additional remedial actions as may be necessary.

Inspection of Care Summary
Facility Tour:
Upon arrival at the facility, AFMC staff was promptly greeted at the entrance by a Youth Home, Incorporated
staff member. AFMC was immediately taken to a conference room where the Utilization Review and Records
Compliance Director met them. AFMC staff was given the completed and signed consent form listing approval
for access to the AFMC portal.
A tour of the facility was completed with a Unit Manager. Several staff members were observed interacting
calmly with clients throughout the facility. All clients were in class at the school building. There were four
dormitories toured along with the school building, cafeteria, gymnasium, and outside grounds. There were no
immediate issues noted during the facility tour. Staff were able to answer questions regarding the facility. At the
end of the facility tour the facility lost electrical power. All emergency lights were noted to be in working order.
Staff remained calm and directed all clients to areas that were well lit and safe.
Facility Review – Policies and Procedures:
Upon review of the site’s policies, procedures, and certification requirements, the following deficiencies were
noted:
Regulation Deficiency Statement Reviewer Notes
Medicaid IP Sec. 2; There is no documentation in the HR The provider's documentation of personnel
CFR 42 482.130, records that all direct care personnel are records did not indicate that all direct care
483.376 trained in the facility's Restraint and personnel are trained, as well as demonstrate
Seclusion policy. competency, in facility's Restraint and
Seclusion policy and appropriate procedures to
be used in Restraint and Seclusion
interventions.
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: HR records did not indicate that all direct The provider's documentation within personnel
221.804; care personnel have ongoing education, records do not indicate that all direct care
CFR 42 482.130, training, and demonstrated knowledge of personnel have ongoing education, training,
483.376 techniques to identify staff and resident and demonstrated knowledge of techniques to
behaviors that may trigger an emergency identify staff and resident behaviors, events
safety situation semi-annually. and environmental factors that may trigger
emergency safety situations on a semi-annual
basis.
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: HR records did not indicate training in The provider's documentation of personnel
221.804; the use of nonphysical intervention records does not indicate training was provided
CFR 42 482.130, skills, such as de-escalation on an annual for the use of nonphysical intervention skills,
483.376 basis. such as de-escalation, mediation conflict
resolution, active listening, and verbal and
observational methods, to prevent emergency
safety situations on an annual basis.
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: The facility does not have a program in The provider's restraint and seclusion policy
221.804; place offering training on the facility's does identify adequate frequency of training.
CFR 42 482.130, Restraint and Seclusion policy, and/or
483.376 training on the appropriate procedures to
be used in Restraint and Seclusion.
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: There is not a current Restraint and The Facility's restraint and seclusion policy
221.700 - 221.710; Seclusion policy in place which complies does not include that staff will receive
CFR 42 441.151, with Medicaid, state, and federal education and training on a biannual basis.
482.130, 483.350 - regulations and provides for
483.376 beneficiaries' safety.
Youth Home, Incorporated – Little Rock, AR – IOC Report 2 | P ag e

Personnel Records – Licenses, Certifications, Training:
There were thirty-five personnel records requested, eight (27%) professional staff and twenty-seven (26%)
paraprofessional staff. During the review of the personnel records, the following deficiencies were noted:
Rule Credential Outcome Personnel Reviewer Notes
Validated Record
Number
The staff member had a gap greater than
six months between CPI and CPI
refresher. Dates provided were
SR016476
01/22/2023 for a refresher then the staff
received a new certification on
11/08/2023.
The staff member had a gap greater than
six months between CPI and CPI
SR016479 refresher. Dates provided were 03/31/23
for the certification then a six month re
fresher on 11/30/2023.
The staff member had a gap greater than
six months between CPI and CPI
refresher. Dates provided were 03/13/24
SR016480
for the certification and the last refresher
prior to that certification was completed
05/23/2023.
The staff member had a gap greater than
six months between CPI and CPI
refresher. Dates provided were
SR016482
Medicaid IP Sec. 12/08/2023 for the certification and the
Restraint and
2: 221.804; 42 refresher before that was dated for
Seclusion Training Failed
CFR 482.130, 04/27/2023.
(CPI)
483.376
The provider lacked evidence of any
SR016485
restraint and seclusion training.
The staff member had a gap greater than
six months between CPI and CPI
refresher. Dates provided were
SR016494 08/03/2022 for the certification then a
refresher on 03/07/2023. No other
additional restraint and seclusion
training was provided.
The staff member had a gap greater than
six months between CPI and CPI
SR016502 refresher. Dates provided were
05/23/2023 for certification than a
refresher on 01/08/2024.
The staff member had a gap greater than
six months between CPI and CPI
refresher. Dates provided were
SR016506
02/08/2023 for the certification then
retraining for the refresher on
12/15/2023.
Youth Home, Incorporated – Little Rock, AR – IOC Report 3 | P ag e

Staff Observations:
The provider added a memo stating that SR016504 was in a virtual role and did not have contact with the
clients, therefore they did not have current restraint and seclusion training.
Observations:
AFMC staff reviewed the final document request form with the Utilization Review and Records Compliance
Director at the completion of the on-site Inspection of Care. The provider signed the acknowledgement of manual
requirements that were not made available in the provider’s policy and procedures. AFMC staff explained that
these findings were preliminary and there was still an off-site portion to be completed.
Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality-of-Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list was
requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was completed. The
following is a summary of findings and noted deficiencies.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no client interviews
were conducted.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
During the facility tour, staff and clients were observed in the classroom setting and in the comfort rooms. Staff
were calmly interacting and engaged with clients.
Medication Pass:
No active FFS Medicaid clients received medications during a medication pass while AFMC staff was onsite.
Due to the observation of non-Medicaid clients not being complaint with the HIPAA minimal necessary rule, no
medication pass was observed. AFMC RN visited with the facility medication nurse who was able to show
AFMC RN the facility policies and procedures regarding medication administration, narcotic
count/reconciliation/handling, and medication discrepancies.
Facility nurse was able to verbalize the step-by-step process of medication delivery including the demonstration
of the five rights of medication administration, documentation of medication delivery, verification of client
taking medication including mouth/cheek checks, and how clients are educated about each medication. Facility
nurse also verbalized the process utilized when a client refuses medication. Tour of medication room completed
no discrepancies with medication storage, cleanliness of medication room, and knowledge of medication
dispensing found.
Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no clinical records
reviews were conducted.
Corrective Action Plan:
The CAP must be completed within 30 calendar days of the date of the email notice of the IOC reports.
Additionally, any findings that were noted in any Health and Safety Inspection(s), which are governed by
certification rules and requirements, are shared with DPSQA and may result in other remedial actions, by
DPSQA, if warranted.
*For more details on the individual related deficiencies, please log into the portal.
Youth Home, Incorporated – Little Rock, AR – IOC Report 4 | P ag e

Respectfully,
Inspection of Care Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
Youth Home, Incorporated – Little Rock, AR – IOC Report 5 | P ag e