available in the provider’s policy and procedures. AFMC staff explained that these findings were preliminary
and there was still an off-site portion to be completed.
Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality-of-Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list was
requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was completed. The
following is a summary of findings and noted deficiencies.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no client interviews
were conducted.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
Staff and clients were observed throughout the facility in the classroom setting on the school unit and moving
from the classroom setting to other activities in the education unit. Educational classes and therapeutic group
activities were noted to be in session. Clients were engaged in schoolwork and activities. In the cafeteria there
was one male client that had been separated from the rest of the clients due to an outburst of behavior. There
were two staff members present with the client, one who was standing back to give client space and one staff
member who was having a calm one-on-one conversation with client to help de-escalate the situation. Staff were
calmly interacting with clients and providing a therapeutic environment that was conducive for learning and
treatment therapies.
Medication Pass:
No active FFS Medicaid clients received medications during a medication pass while AFMC staff was onsite.
Due to the observation of non-Medicaid clients not being complaint with the HIPAA minimal necessary rule, no
medication pass was observed. AFMC RN visited with the facility medication nurse who was able to show
AFMC RN the facility policies and procedures regarding medication administration, count, reconciliation, and
handling of controlled substances, and medication discrepancies.
The facility nurse was able to verbalize the step-by-step process of medication delivery including the
demonstration of the five rights of medication administration, documentation of medication delivery,
verification of client taking medication including mouth/cheek checks, and how clients are educated about each
medication. The facility nurse also verbalized the process utilized when a client refuses medication. Tour of
medication room completed no discrepancies with medication storage, cleanliness of medication room, and
knowledge of medication dispensing found.
Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no clinical records
reviews were conducted.
Respectfully,
Inspection of Care Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
The Centers for Youth & Families – Monticello, AR – IOC Report 2 | P ag e