▪ AFMC staff noted that the staff member listed as the alleged offender was not listed on staff
debriefing documentation page for the physical restraint that occurred on January 12, 2025, at 11:58
a.m. The facility staff stated that the alleged staff member’s personal keys fell out of their pocket
while they were assisting another staff member in physically restraining the client. After releasing
the restraint, the alleged victim and another client grabbed the staff member’s keys and played
“keep away” with keys. Once the staff member obtained keys back from the clients it was reported
to facility management staff that staff member was very upset and left their shift early without
completing the staff debriefing.
o Training requirements within the Emergency Intervention policy are outlined as follows, Staff will complete
Handle with Care recertification training annually. Direct care staff also participate in a Handle with Care
refresher training within six months of certification/recertification.
• The Incident Reporting-Risk Management Program Policy:
o Section IV.C. PROCEDURES states, an ‘incident’ is an unanticipated event, which results in, or nearly
causes, a negative impact on patient care or visitor safety. Any harm caused can be temporary, long-term,
or permanent and range in severity from no obvious or significant injury, up to death.
▪ Supervisor will review the Incident Report for legibility, completion, and date. Supervisor will
notify facility Risk Manager of a serious incident as well as take the lead in investigating non-
serious incidents.
▪ The Incident Report will be routed to the facility Risk Manager within 24 hours of incident.
▪ Completed, reviewed, and signed Incident Reports must be entered into the Risk Management
Information System ("RiskQual/HAS" incident reporting system). The “Level l" and "Level Il"
incidents must be entered within 24 hours. 'Level Ill" and "Level IV" incidents must be entered
within 5 calendar days.
▪ If the incident involves a patient, staff must chart relevant and factual information in the patient's
medical record. When documenting incidents in the medical records, staff will chart precisely what
happened without referring to an "error" or that an Incident Report was completed. Staff should
not attribute any cause to the unanticipated event.
o Section VI. INCIDENT TYPE CATEGORIZATION states,
▪ A. Patient Care Treatment: Incidents involving a patient while they are actively participating in
treatment that can or does cause harm or disruption.
• 5. O1E. Verbal or mental/psychological abuse by staff allegations.
▪ B. In states where the facility is required to report certain adverse events to an outside regulatory
agency, it must be done within state/agency requirements with notification of such external
reporting obligations to Corporate Risk Management and Corporate Quality and Compliance.
• 1. All incident Reports received by the facility Risk Manager will be assigned an initial
severity classification level in accordance with established Corporate Risk Management
criteria, approved by the facility leadership and Governing Board.
• 2. The severity level index will be utilized by the facility Risk Manager and facility
leadership to identify significant incidents in an effort to facilitate referral of issues needing
further evaluation and/or action to address and monitor failures in systems to improve the
quality of care.
• 3. The following severity level classifications shall be assigned in incident reporting:
o A. Level 1 (Major): Incidents which are considered serious events. This may
include sentinel events.
o B. Level II (Moderate): Injury or impairment in which a patient or visitor’s
function may be altered with treatment limited to first aid.
o C. Level III (Minor): Injury or impairment in which a patient or visitor’s function
may be altered with treatment limited to first aid.
o D. Level IV (Inconsequential): Events which do not otherwise qualify as a Level I,
II, or III and where no injury or outcome alters a patient or visitor’s function.
• 4. Extra event identifiers for qualifying incidents
o A. Near Miss Event: Identifies an incident or process variation that carried a
significant change of being recognized as a Sentinel Event, but is outside the scope
of a Sentinel Event description.
o B. Sentinel Event: Identifies a patient safety related incident (no primarily related
to the natural course of an illness or underlying condition of an individual served)
Piney Ridge Treatment Center, LLC- Fayetteville, AR. - IOC Report 2 | P ag e





the alleged victim and offender during the physical restraint incident on January 13, 2025. All
employees interviewed stated that they did not hear the alleged statement made by the alleged
offender.
▪ On January 16, 2025, the alleged offender was cleared of the allegations by Piney Ridge Center
based on the results of the internal investigation.
▪ On January 17, 2025, the Risk Manager and Director of Nursing received an email from PRLU
that a l had been received regarding the incident occurring on January 12, 2025. The
facility’s Risk Coordinator, who was not involved in the restraint, was named in the
as the alleged offender in the incident occurring on January 12, 2025. The Risk Coordinator was
suspended on January 17, 2025.
▪ On January 17, 2025, the Washington County DCFS Investigator visited the facility and
interviewed the alleged victim. The facility’s Risk Manager informed the Washington County
DCFS Investigator at this time that they had the wrong alleged offender.
▪ On January 21, 2025, the Risk Coordinator was released of the suspension by PRLU and Piney
Ridge Treatment Center and was allowed to return to work on January 22, 2025.
▪ The alleged offender was suspended on January 19, 2025, via phone, for a pending investigation
of inappropriate comments made during a restraint on January 13, 2025.
▪ The alleged offender was terminated January 20, 2025, due to legal issues outside of
employment, that did not relate to the incident.
▪ On January 24, 2025, PRLU visited Piney Ridge Treatment Center. At the time of the AFMC
IOC the facility had not received the 521 Form from the PRLU.
• Upon review of the alleged victim’s chart the following observations were noted:
o The client was admitted to Piney Ridge Treatment Center, LLC on , 2024, and remains a client
in the facility.
o The psychiatric evaluation was completed on October 25, 2024, at 2:55 p.m. but was not signed by the
provider until January 23, 2025, at 9:39 a.m.
o The client had the following episodes of restraints documented. Most incidents are documented as
unprovoked outbursts of behavior resulting in the alleged victim assaulting peers and staff members.
▪ Physical Restraint on November 11, 2024, at 7:45 a.m. - 7:51 a.m.
▪ Physical Restraint on January 11, 2025, at 4:09 p.m. - 4:12 p.m.
▪ Physical Restraint on January 12, 2025, at 11:58 a.m. - 12:06 p.m.
▪ Physical Restraint on January 13, 2025, at 8:08 p.m. - 8:22 p.m.
▪ Physical Restraint on January 15, 2025, at 6:50 p.m. - 6:54 p.m.
▪ Physical and Restraint on January 15, 2025, at 7:25 p.m. - 7:37 p.m.
▪ Physical Restraint on January 18, 2025, at 8:45 a.m. - 8:55 a.m.
▪ Physical Restraint on January 18, 2025, at 7:15 p.m. - 7:27 p.m.
o Each restraint episode was documented using the facility’s restraint packet. Restraint documentation was
reviewed, and the following observations were noted:
▪ All orders for physical and chemical restraints were obtained in a timely manner via
verbal/telephone orders. Orders for episodes of restraints were noted to be signed anywhere from
3 days after the initial order received to 13 days after the initial order is received. No orders
signed within 24 hours of receiving the initial order.
Respectfully,
Inspection of Care Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
Piney Ridge Treatment Center, LLC- Fayetteville, AR. - IOC Report 5 | P ag e