Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 027422
Date of Incident: 2/4/2025
Date Received: 2/7/2025
Facility Name: Perimeter of the Ozarks
Facility Number: 237
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Complainant stated she has received medical information on another
patient by mail. The facility is allowing calls to her daughter that are not on the call list. The
facility is giving out health related information on the patient that are not on the release of
information. The facility is not following the agreed plain of care and the patient is on
several medications without consent. The facility has not notified the parent of violent
behavior and the attempts to run away from the facility. The therapist are enabling the
behavior.
Interim Action Narrative:
Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing reviewed the report. Licensing specialist will contact the
report to obtain more information concerning the report. Reporter states she received a
weekly report from the Facility that was for another resident. The reporter states there is a
code she is supposed to provide when speaking about medical information from the facility.
Facility staff was not asking for this code. The erroneous medical information the reporter
received was for resident ----- The reporter is concerned the facility is not providing the
treatment the resident needs. The reporter states she is taking medication without
understanding why she is taking these medications. Reporter states the residents used the
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

facility computer to talk to strangers on Pin-trest and broke a calculator and convinced
another resident to self harm. Reporter has the residents two sisters in foster care, and the
resident has been calling her sister on the phone. The reporter states the sister of the
resident is not on the resident call list but the resident continues to call the sister. The
reporter thinks the phone calls aren't monitored because the resident will make
inappropriate conversation and no one at the facility addresses it during the phone call.
Reporter sent email she received from the facility with incorrect residents medical
information. The documentation was uploaded to ELS. 2/24/2025 - A visit was conducted
to review the resident file for . The resident D.O.A was and a master
treatment plan was compiled for the resident 8/29/2025. The treatment plan has been kept
updated every 30 days. Consent for medication change was reviewed and a copy for a
medication change with reporter's signature was received and uploaded to ELS. Licensing
specialist reviewed the computer usage of the and spoke to about the
usage of computers for academic purposes. The computer usage is monitored by staff.
Resident phone call time was observed during the visit. The phone calls are monitored by
staff while residents are using the phones during the duration of the phone call. 2/27/2025-
The complaint has been UNFOUNDED by licensing. 521 inspection report sent to the
facility for signature.