Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 027681
Date of Incident: 2/18/2025
Date Received: 2/20/2025
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for Private
placement client in our PRTF program and resides in House Incident Report
date/time: 02/18/25 8:26pm Location of Incident: House Incident Description:
Threat to Safety Staff Involved: Ebony Galmore, Jasmine Griffin, Kelton Johnson, Ben
Malone, Ashley Pankey, Meredith Reddin Events Leading: client was placed on front of the
house due to her unsafe behaviors, including peers attempting to attack her for being
aggressive with staff members. client was given this information then she started to be
aggressive with staff. client pushed a staff member during this time because she was upset .
As staff was trying to remove the client's mattress from her room client started to pull/tug
bed away from staff to keep her bed from coming to the front. Client had to be restrained at
this time to keep everyone safe. 8:26pm-Personal Restraint: client was being aggressive with
staff after being asked to leave room. client had to be removed from her room due to unsafe
reasons. client was hitting, and kicking staff while being removed from her room. Client was
walked to the milieu, and restrained in a seated position on the couches in the milieu
8:28pm-Personal Restraint End: client was release from the restraint. client was tearful at
this time. client was asking for support from a staff member at this time. 8:30pm-Personal
Restraint: client was being no compliant with staff. client asked for a phone call. staff told
her that she could not make a call until she calmed down. client started yelling at staff' i
need a call now'. client was told again that if she calmed down that she will get a phone call.
client started walking toward the phone, and started dialing her moms phone number. client
was asked to step away from the phone at this time. client refuse to step away from the
phone. staff reached in to take the phone then she started to assault a staff member with a
phone. client had to be restrained at this time. 8:39pm-Personal Restraint: client was still
being non complaint with staff at this time. a chemical restraint was requested at this time.
8:45pm-Chemical Restraint: client was aware that she will be getting a chemical shot. client
did not want a chemical shot she was scared of the needle. client was giving the option to
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

take a chemical pill, client agreed to the chemical pill by mouth. client took the pill at this
time. 8:47pm-Personal Restraint End: client just finishing taking a chemical pill. client
contracted to safety, and was released at this time. Patient Debriefing date/time: 02/18/25
8:46pm: after taking the chemical pill client finally calmed down. client did not apologize to
staff about her actions. client did state that she was ready to lay down. she went to sleep
shortly after at this time. Nursing Assessment date/time: 02/18/25 9:15pm: The nurse
received orders for the client to be placed at the front of the house due to unsafe behaviors,
including threats from peers attempting to attack her in response to her aggression toward
staff. The client was informed of this decision, at which point she became aggressive with
staff. During this escalation, the client pushed a staff member in frustration. As staff
attempted to remove the client's mattress from her room, she began pulling and tugging at
the bed to prevent its relocation. Due to continued aggression and safety concerns, the
client was placed in a personal restraint. Upon release from the restraint, the client
attempted to attack staff, ran into unauthorized areas, and attempted to use the phone
inappropriately. The client was subsequently placed in another personal restraint to ensure
safety. Following this incident, the on-call MD was notified of the client's unsafe and
disruptive behaviors, and the following orders were approved: personal restraint, freeze PA,
and chemical restraint. The nurse completed a face-to-face assessment at 9:15 PM, during
which the client denied any physical injuries or concerns. The client was observed lying on
a mattress at the front of the house and requested earplugs, which were provided. The on-
call UM was notified at 9:28 PM, and the on-call therapist was informed at 9:34 PM.
Guardian was notified on 02/18/25 at 9:05pm.
on 02/19/25 at 12:33pm for an .
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was restrained for safety and assessed by the nurse.
Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Facility emailed Program Coordinator regarding this provider
reported incident. 2/20/2025, provider reported incident was reviewed for licensing
concerns. Facility provided documentation for this provider reported incident.
Documentation reviewed and uploaded. Resident will return to the facility after .