Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 019654
Date of Incident: 3/5/2024
Date Received by DCCECE: 3/6/2024
Facility Name: Perimeter of the Ozarks
Facility Number: 237
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Name: On 3/5/24 at approximately
1430, resident reported to staff that she had taken approximately 2 weeks? worth of
medication all at once. claimed that she had been ?cheeking? her medication at med
pass for the last 2 weeks. The nursing department was promptly notified by staff, and as a
preventative measure, was transported to Arkansas Childrens Hospital for further
evaluation per facility providers orders. Actions Taken: Per facility provider, was
transported to Arkansas Children?s Hospital for observation overnight. Per discharge report,
there were no findings indicative of an overdose during her stay overnight, and she was
released back to the facility this morning. Upon return to the facility this morning, the
following orders were given per our provider; --Suicide precautions with observation level to
be constant line of sight of staff at all times. -Medications will be placed in
applesauce/pudding at med pass to better ensure adequate ingestion of medication -
Resident will participate in thorough mouth checks by nursing department at med
pass and remain at nurses? station for 10 minutes after administration of medication for
closer observation under RN supervision Parties notified of event:
, CEO Art Hickman, Regional CEO Rebecca Thomas, VP Clinical
Training Chris Perry, VP Risk Compliance/Quality Annika Perry, MSW ? Clinical Director
Heather Harper, VP Nursing Sarah Whorton-Director of Nursing Kris Stewart, Reagan
Stanford, and Ashlyn Whelchel (Disability Rights of AR) Chelsea Vardell, Kendra Rice,
Jarred Parnell and Felicia Harris (DHS)
Interim Action Narrative:
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: 3/7/2024 - The provider reported incident was reviewed by Licensing
Specialist Jarred Parnell. Licensing Specialist contacted the facility to inquire about weather
the resident was "cheeking" her medications or if it was found out she was lying. Facility
staff stated there was no evidence in the medical report or physical evidence showing the
resident had "cheeked" her medicines. Staff believe she was lying about the incident. A
copy of the residents vitals documentation completed by facility nursing staff when the
resident returned to the facility will be provided. Vitals showed normal.