Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 023824
Date of Incident: 9/5/2024
Date Received: 9/6/2024
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for
client in our PRTF program and resides in Sturgis House Incident report
date/time: 09/05/24 11:30am Location of Incident: Siebert School Incident Description:
Medical Emergency (Trip to ER/Urgent Care) Staff Involved: Valerie Alvarez, Angela Shy
Events Leading: was seen today for routine weekly medication management and
evaluation. He discussed the physical altercation that occured over the weekend. After
asking direct questions, it was determined he will be sent to ACH ER to rule out concussion
or other injuries. Nursing Assessment date/time: 09/05/24 11:30am: was seen today
for routine medication management and evaluation. He reported to be "good" today. He
reports his week is getting "better". Denies peer conflict. He reports he can get to sleep but
wakes throughout the night. Feels the Vyvanse 10mg "definitely helps". Discussed he feels
he could benefit from bumping the dose up. Discussed past medications trials. Discussed
fight that occurred over the weekend. He feels that he and the peers that hit him have
restored and he feels safe around them. He discussed he is mostly upset with the 2 that
instigated the altercation. He has a mild headache, predominantly on the right side of his
head, that has remained. He admits only mentioning this to the nurse the day of the
incident and received apap. Upon further questioning, he endorsed blurred vision out of (R)
eye and a popping/clicking jaw. Denies any nausea, vomiting, weakness, numbness,
tingling, fatigue, sensitivity to light or noise, or tinnitus. He reported pain on inhalation on
the right lower back, no obvious bruising noted, and no difficulty taking a breath. No signs
of respiratory distress, retractions, accessory muscle use, or nasal flaring. No visible signs of
trauma, erythema, bruising, abrasions, lacerations, deformities, deviations, protrusions, or
edema. No signs of trauma or abnormalities to oral mucosa. To be noted: there is some sort
of hyperpigmentation/scar tissue noted above his (R) eye in which he reports is the result of
an older injury. Denies difficulty eating/swallowing/talking. No palpable hematomas were
noted to scalp. He answers appropriately. Clear, calm coherent speech. AAOx4. PERRLA.
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Grip strength bil equal, +2. Capillary refill brisk, less than 3 seconds, and WNL. Gait is
steady. Discussed when at home, he usually takes 800mg of IBP once daily. No further
concerns or physical complaints voiced. Due to c/o continued headache, clicking/popping
jaw, and blurred vision out of (R) eye, MD ordered for to be transported to ACH to
rule out concussion or any other sustained injuries. increase in addition to increasing
trazodone 150mg QHS and schedule ibuprofen 800mg BID x3 days Guardian was notified
on 09/05/24 at 1:15pm ER paperwork was emailed to Kendra Slade on 09/06/24
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was assessed and transported to ACH for further
evaluation.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing reviewed provider reported incident for licensing concerns.
Facility provided documentation for this incident.