February 14, 2025
Youth Home, Incorporated
20400 Colonel Glenn Rd
Little Rock, AR 72210-5323
The Division of Provider Services and Quality Assurance (DPSQA) of the Arkansas Department of Human
Services has contracted with Arkansas Foundation for Medical Care (AFMC) to perform Inspections of Care
(IOC) for Inpatient Psychiatric Services for Under 21. The Medicaid Manual for Inpatient Psychiatric Services
for Under Age 21 was used in the completion of this report.
Observations and any deficiencies noted are listed below for the inspection conducted at the following service
site on the following date:
Youth Home, Incorporated
Provider Medicaid ID:
Onsite Inspection Date: February 11, 2025
Onsite Inspection Time: 9:00 AM
A summary of the inspection and any deficiencies noted are outlined below.
Inspection of Care Summary
Facility Tour:
Upon arrival at the facility, AFMC staff were promptly greeted at the entrance by a Youth Home, Incorporated
receptionist in the main lobby. AFMC staff signed the visitor log and were given visitor badges. AFMC was
immediately taken to a conference room where they were met by the Regulatory Director, Utilization Review
Director, Records Compliance Director, and the Training Officer. AFMC staff were given the completed and
signed consent form listing approval for access to the AFMC portal. Facility staff were given the Document
Request Form and AFMC staff discussed the requirements for the Inspection of Care.
A tour of the facility was completed with a Unit Manager. The facility environment was extremely clean, well-
organized, and appeared to be in good repair. In two of the dormitories there were clients on unit restrictions
with staff members in attendance. All other clients were in classes in the educational school building. There
were no immediate issues noted during the facility tour. Staff were able to answer questions regarding the
facility.
Facility Review – Policies and Procedures:
Upon review of the site’s policies, procedures, and certification requirements, no deficiencies were noted.
Personnel Records – Licenses, Certifications, Training:
There were thirty-nine personnel records reviewed, eight (28%) professional staff and thirty-one (26%)
paraprofessional staff. Upon review of the personnel records, no deficiencies were noted.
Observations:
At the conclusion of the onsite inspection, AFMC staff reviewed the final document request form with the
Regulatory Director, Utilization Review Director, Records Compliance Director, and the Training Officer at the
completion of the on-site Inspection of Care. The provider signed the acknowledgement of manual requirements

that were made available in the provider’s policy and procedures. AFMC staff explained that these findings were
preliminary and there was still an off-site portion to be completed.
Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality-of-Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list was
requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was completed. The
following is a summary of findings and noted deficiencies.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no client interviews
were conducted.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
In two of the dormitories there were clients on unit restrictions with staff members in attendance. All other clients
were in classes in the educational school building. Clients were engaged in schoolwork and organized activities.
Staff were calmly interacting with clients and providing a therapeutic environment that was conducive for learning
and treatment therapies. All areas with clients were noted to be staffed adequately and according to the facility’s
staffing ratio policy.
Medication Pass:
No active FFS Medicaid clients received medications during medication pass. Due to the observation of non-
Medicaid clients not being complaint with the HIPAA minimal necessary rule, no medication pass was
observed. The tour of medication room was completed with facility staff and a review of facility policies and
procedures regarding medication administration, count/reconciliation/handling of controlled substances, and
medication errors/discrepancies was completed. There were no discrepancies noted regarding medication
storage, cleanliness of the medication room, and policy review.
Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no clinical records
reviews were conducted.
Respectfully,
Inspection of Care Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
Youth Home, Incorporated – Little Rock, AR – IOC Report 2 | P ag e