Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 3/10/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 3/10/2023
Facility Name: Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF
Facility Number: 233
Facility Type:
Incident Type: Dual
Report Description: A report to the was performed. No return
correspondence has been received at the time of this report. Allegation: During a family
session, (Arkansas, Adoptive parent custody, DOB: ) reported to
his therapist and adoptive mother that staff member threatened to
"cut his vocal cords" because he wouldn't stop humming. stated that
made him get under a table and pushed a chair against him. reported that
made him "stand up in a corner when it was time to go to bed". He stated that
"poked him with a pen" behind his right ear and on the right side of his head. Nursing
Assessment: Healed abrasion. Scab noted behind right ear. Estimated to be one week old.
No injury noted in the indicated area on the right side of head. Risk Interview:
was unable to state a day or exact time. He felt this event occurred one or two nights ago on
2nd Shift. (Video review places event on 3.9.23 beginning at 1915). was
interviewed, and he denied s claims. stated that did stand
against the wall, but it was voluntary. stated that it was allowed because
was provoking other patients, and this was to keep him separated and safe. Preliminary
camera review was able to confirm that he did stand against the wall. At the time of this
report, we are unable to substantiate any of the other claims made by . The internal
investigation is ongoing. has been placed on administrative leave,
pending the results of the investigation.
Interim Action Narrative: Staff placed on administrative leave pending investigation.
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Maltreatment Narrative: call accepted . Info faxed to
3/10/23. AV is . AO is , staff person
at Millcreek. AV reported that AO threatened to "cut his vocal cords" because he wouldn't
stop humming. AO made AV get under a table and pushed a chair against him. He made
him stand in a corner and poked him with a pen behind his right ear. was
interviewed and denied claims. AO placed on administrative leave. Email 5/3/23 stating
that maltreatment was unsubstantiated.
Licensing Narrative: A report to the was performed. No return
correspondence has been received at the time of this report 3/10/23. Email 3/13/23 stated
that for this incident was accepted . Allegation: During a
family session, client reported to his therapist and adoptive mother that
staff member threatened to "cut his vocal cords" because he wouldn't
stop humming. stated that made him get under a table and pushed a
chair against him. reported that made him "stand up in a corner when it
was time to go to bed". He stated that "poked him with a pen" behind his right ear
and on the right side of his head. Nursing Assessment: Healed abrasion. Scab noted behind
right ear. Estimated to be one week old. No injury noted in the indicated area on the right
side of head. Risk Interview: was unable to state a day or exact time. He felt this
event occurred one or two nights ago on 2nd Shift. (Video review places event on 3.9.23
beginning at 1915). was interviewed, and he denied s claims.
stated that did stand against the wall, but it was voluntary.
stated that it was allowed because was provoking other patients, and this was to
keep him separated and safe. Preliminary camera review was able to confirm that he did
stand against the wall. At the time of this report, we are unable to substantiate any of the
other claims made by . The internal investigation is ongoing.
has been placed on administrative leave, pending the results of the investigation. Facility
visited 3/13/23 and video reviewed from 3/9/23 which showed client being directed to
stand in the corner from 7:15PM until 9:40PM with brief breaks. Facility requested to send a
download of video of this complaint. The facility was unable to provide the video today due
to the large amount of video but will mail it to licensing after it is downloaded onto a flash
drive. Video footage also showed office door open during entire time reviewed. Video
showed staff on her cell phone during most of the video reviewed.
Facility cited 905.3, 905.4f and 907.2. Licensing is not prepared to make a finding on this
allegation yet as to further review video. As to document sub-regulation f: The following
disciplinary actions shall not be used: Restriction to a dark room or area. 3/14/23 flash drive
of entire video provided by facility to Licensing. Video was viewed in real time in its entirety
on 3/16/23. Staff is seen bumping client with her stomach area to
direct back to the corner. The was called separately for this
incident involving and . A client is seen transporting what

appears to be a cleaning agent unsupervised. Client goes into the unlocked office, retrieves
a cleaning agent and presents it to staff sitting at table. The staff then pour some of the
cleaning agent on a rag and give rag to client. Client then transports the cleaning agent
back to the unlocked office unsupervised. Facility has already been cited 907.2 for this case.
907.2 revisited and noted for visit to facility 3/17/23. Facility cited 905.4g for incident
involving staff and client Staff will be retrained on
interacting with clients without exhibiting threat of bodily harm. Email 5/3/23 stating that
maltreatment was unsubstantiated. was terminated from employment
from Millcreek 3/23/23. was retrained and has since been terminated
from employment from Millcreek 5/22/23.