July 24, 2023
The Division of Provider Services and Quality Assurance of the Arkansas Department of Human Services
has contracted with Arkansas Foundation for Medical Care (AFMC) to perform Inspections of Care (IOC)
for Inpatient Psychiatric for Under 21. The Medicaid Manual for Inpatient Psychiatric Services for Under
Age 21 was used in the completion of this report.
Deficiencies were noted during the Inpatient Psychiatric Inspection of Care (IOC) conducted at the
following service site on the specified dates:
Centers for Youth and Families, Inc.
6501 West 12th Street
Little Rock, Arkansas 72225
Facility Provider ID: 115662125
Onsite Inspection Date: July 18, 2023
Onsite Inspection Time: 10:52 a.m.
A summary of the inspection and deficiencies noted are outlined below. The provider must submit a
Corrective Action Plan (CAP) designed to correct any deficiency notes in the written report of the IOC.
Accordingly, you must complete and submit to AFMC a Corrective Action Plan for each deficiency noted.
The Corrective Action Plan must state with the specificity the:
(a) Corrective action to be taken.
(b) Person(s) responsible for implementing and maintaining the corrective action; and
(c) Completion date or anticipated completion date for each corrective action.
The CAP must be completed within 30 calendar days of the date of the email notice of the IOC report at
the link provided.
The contractor (AFMC) will:
(a) Review the Corrective Action Plan.
(b) Determine whether the Corrective Action Plan is sufficient to credibly assure future compliance; and
(c) Provide the Corrective Action Plan to the Division of Provider Services and Quality Assurance
(DPSQA).
Please see § 160 of the Medicaid Manual for an explanation of your rights to administrative reconsideration
and appeal. Additionally, the imposition of this Corrective Action Plan does not prevent the Department of
Human Services from prescribing additional remedial actions as may be necessary.

Inspection of Care Summary
Facility Tour:
Upon arrival to facility, AFMC staff was promptly greeted at the entrance by a Centers for Youth and
Families staff member. AFMC was immediately taken to a conference room where they were met by the
Chief Strategy Officer. AFMC staff was given the completed and signed consent form listing approval
for access to the AFMC portal.
A tour of the facility was completed with the Chief Strategy Officer. Several staff members were
observed interacting calmly with clients throughout the facility. Staff were able to answer questions
regarding the facility.
There are two buildings that house the under 21 years of age population. The first building toured houses
the older adolescent girls. This building has four units that include the clients’ rooms and bathrooms.
AFMC staff noted that housekeeping was finishing cleaning and mopping the units during the tour. One
unit’s floor was noted to still be wet from housekeeping mopping and there was trash and fingernail
clippings noted in the floor after being mopped. New paint was noted on the walls in all units. Other areas
toured included the common area that is used for group activities and meals, bathrooms, outside area, and
the medication room. No other issues were noted.
The second building toured houses the younger male and female children. This building mimics the same
set up as the first building with four units, one girls’ unit and three boys’ units. Areas toured included the
units, the common area that is used for group activities and meals, bathrooms, outside area, and the
medication room. This building was extremely clean and well organized. No issues were noted.
Facility Review-Policies and Procedures:
Upon review of the site’s policies and procedures, the following deficiencies were noted:
Rule Deficiency Statement Reviewer Notes
Medicaid IP HR records did not indicate training in the The provider's HR records did not
Sec. 2: use of nonphysical intervention skills, such identify training in the use of
221.804; CFR as de-escalation on an annual basis. nonphysical intervention skills, such
42 482.130, as de-escalation, mediation conflict
483.376 resolution, active listening, and
verbal and observational methods, to
prevent emergency safety situations
on an a
Medicaid IP HR records did not indicate that all direct The provider's HR records did not
Sec. 2: care personnel have ongoing education, identify that all direct care personnel
221.804; CFR training, and demonstrated knowledge of have ongoing education, training,
42 482.130, techniques to identify staff and resident and demonstrated knowledge of
483.376 behaviors that may trigger an emergency techniques to identify staff and
safety situation semi-annually. resident behaviors, events and
environmental factors that may
trigger emergency safe
Medicaid IP There is no documentation in the HR The provider's HR records did not
Sec. 2; CFR records that all direct care personnel are identify that all direct care personnel
42 482.130, trained in facility's Restraint and Seclusion are trained, as well as demonstrate
483.376 policy. competency, in facility's Restraint
and Seclusion policy and appropriate
procedures to be used in Restraint
and Seclusion interventions.
Centers for Youth and Families, Inc., Little Rock – IOC Report 2 | P ag e

Personnel Records- Licenses, Certifications, Training:
There were 32 personnel records requested, six (25%) professional staff and 26 (28%) paraprofessional
staff. During the review of the personnel records, the following deficiencies were noted:
Personnel Rule Credential Outcome Reviewer Notes
Record Validated
Number
SR014388 Medicaid IP Sec. 2: Restraint and Failed No file received.
221.804; Seclusion
42 CFR 482.130, Training (CPI)
483.376
Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality of Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list
was requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was
completed. The following is a summary of findings and noted deficiencies.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, there were
no client interviews were conducted.
Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, there were
no clinical records reviews conducted.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
Clients were observed on the units and in the common areas in group activity sessions and eating. Staff
were engaged with the clients and were providing a therapeutic environment that was conducive to
learning.
Medication Pass:
No Medicaid clients received medications during medication pass. Due to the observation of non-
Medicaid clients not being complaint with the HIPAA minimal necessary rule, no medication pass was
observed. AFMC RN visited with the medication nurse who was able to show AFMC RN the facility
policies and procedures regarding medication administration, narcotic count/reconciliation/handling, and
medication discrepancies. Tour of medication room completed with the medication nurse. The only
discrepancy found during the tour of the medication room was an expired multi-dose vial of TB skin test
in medication refrigerator in medication room in the older girls’ building.
Corrective Action Plan:
The CAP must be completed within 30 calendar days of the date of the email notice of the IOC report
available for review. The IOC Report and Request for Corrective Action can be accessed through the link
to AccessPoint, provided via email.
*For more details on the individual related deficiencies, please log into the portal.
Centers for Youth and Families, Inc., Little Rock – IOC Report 3 | P ag e

Respectfully,
AFMC Inspection Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
Centers for Youth and Families, Inc., Little Rock – IOC Report 4 | P ag e