Observations:
AFMC staff reviewed the final document request form with the Compliance Director and the Corporate
Compliance Specialist at the completion of the on-site Inspection of Care. The provider signed the
acknowledgement of manual requirements that were made available in the provider’s policy and
procedures. AFMC staff explained that these findings were preliminary and there was still an off-site portion to
be completed.
Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality-of-Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list was
requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was completed. The
following is a summary of findings and noted deficiencies.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no client interviews
were conducted.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
All the clients were observed in two separate educational classrooms on the second floor of the facility. Staff and
clients were calmly interacting and engaged in classroom learning. Classrooms were staffed adequately and
according to staffing ratio policy. Staff were providing a therapeutic environment conducive to learning.
Medication Pass:
No active FFS Medicaid clients received medications during the Inspections of Care while AFMC staff was
onsite. The AFMC RN visited with the facility medication nurse who was able to show the AFMC RN the
facility’s policies and procedures regarding medication administration, count, reconciliation, and handling of
controlled substances, and medication discrepancies.
The facility nurse was able to verbalize the step-by-step process of medication delivery including the
demonstration of the five rights of medication administration, documentation of medication delivery,
verification of client taking medication including mouth/cheek checks, and how clients are educated about each
medication. The facility nurse also verbalized the process utilized when a client refuses medication. A tour of
the medication room was completed, and no discrepancies were noted with medication storage, cleanliness of
the medication room, and knowledge of medication dispensing found.
Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no clinical records
reviews were conducted.
Respectfully,
Inspection of Care Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
United Methodist Children’s Home – Bono, AR – IOC Report 2 | P ag e