Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 023220
Date of Incident: 8/13/2024
Date Received: 8/14/2024
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for
client in our PRTF program and resides in Mabee House Incident Report
date/time: 08/13/24 5:13pm Location of Incident: Mabee House Intervention Type:
Personal Restraints, Chemical Restraints, Acute Placement Incident Description:
Aggressive to Adults, Threat to Safety, Property Destruction Staff Involved:
Events Leading: Client was
upset about her still being on freeze from yesterday. Client went to her room and closed her
door behind her. Staff went to open the door to ensure supervision and she closed it again.
Staff sat outside of client's door to ensure she did not close it again. Client did not like staff
sitting at her door and began pulling out chunks of her hair. Staff tried holding her hands so
she would stop pulling her hair out and she began kicking staff. 5:13pm Personal Restraint:
milieu restraint 5:24pm Personal Restraint End: Client became tearful and laid her head on
staff. The personal restraint ended. Client talked to staff about her dog, bandit, that she
alleges was run over by her mom. Staff offered verbal support. Client continued to sob and
yelled, "It's all my fault!" She stood up and charged to the bathroom, slamming the door.
Staff managed to get the door open. Staff tried to offer to client that she could sit in the
bathroom if she left the door cracked, but client was continuing to escalate and slamming
the door. Client stood up and ripped the shower curtain off of the shower, then started
swinging the shower rod at staff. Client struck a nurse with the shower rod, and while the
rod was down, a staff and CT grabbed the rod and removed it from the client's hands.
5:25pm Personal Restraint: A personal restraint was initiated due to physically aggressive
behaviors. Client sat on the floor while restrained and continued yelling and breathing
loudly. Staff continued to offer water, verbal support, and let client know that she could call
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

dad when she is calm. Client pretended to pass out and then regained consciousness within
one minute. After she regained consciousness, she continued fighting the restraint. With
staff support, client began to calm down and become tearful. 5:38pm Personal Restraint
End: Client sat between staff members and cried while talking about abuse from her sister.
Client told staff her sister threatened to shoot her if she told anyone about the abuse. Staff
offered client support. Client then hallucinated her sister and her sisters voice and talked to
staff about what she was seeing and hearing. 5:53pm Other/None: Staff offered to walk
client to her room to lay down and take a break. Staff used supportive touch and walked
client to her room. After some prompting, client was able to walk to her room and lay down.
Staff continued to offer support. Nursing staff informed client that they had a shot that
could take the voices away. 5:58pm Chemical Restraint: Client was hesitant but cooperative
with taking the shot while she held staff's hands and talked about the show Bluey. Nursing
administered a chemical restraint. Patient Debriefing date/time: 08/13/24 6:15pm: During
debriefing, client asked staff not to say anything to her therapist about the things she said
regarding her sister. Staff decided not to address her concern and just reassured her that she
was safe and focused on staying calm. She said that her elbows hurt from thrashing on the
ground. Nursing heard this and assessed her. She talked more about trust issues with her
mom. She said that she could stay calm with a meal and a phone call to dad. After the
chemical, she still appeared on edge and on the verge of tearfulness. Client was transported
to acute by MEMs at 8:38. Nursing Assessment date/time: 08/13/24 5:13pm: Upon nurses
arrival to unit at about 1635, pt is in assigned room rocking back and forth pulling at hair,
scratching at wrists, and popping hairband to wrist. Pt bumped head against wall about 4
times. Pt states that she is 'overwhelmed' and 'wants to leave'. Pt able to calm down after
sitting and talking w/ nurse Pt states that she 'wants to quit the program', says
that she 'misses her dog and family'. Upon assessment, pt is A&Ox4. Speech clear. No h/a,
dizziness, n/v. Eyes PERRLA. No bumps, bruises, or bleeding noted to head. Gait steady.
Full ROM in all extremities w/o pain. Redness to L forearm from scratching wrist. Redness
to R wrist from popping hair tie. Bruises that are purple/black noted to L forearm and
upper arm, pt states that these are 'old'. Unsure of origin. VS as follows; BP 113/83, HR 97,
RR 20, temp 99.2F. Resp even, unlabored. Zyprexa 5mg ODT given per MAR. Pt sat in
nurses station to debrief. Pt expressed wants to leave, pt encouraged to work on therapy in
order to d/c when tx is complete. Encouraged pt to journal/read and use other coping
mechanisms. Pt walked out of nurses station and attempted to barricade self in room. This
RN called an all call. Pt attempted to kick door of milieu down. QBHP stepped in
front of door. Pt threw self backwards onto floor. Pt laid on floor with eyes closed for about 1
to 2 minutes. Pt responsive to sound, opening and closing eyes when there is verbal stimuli.
Resp even, unlabored. Pt got up quickly from floor, then began to destroy property in
milieu. Pt began to knock over locker, rip papers off of wall. Pt was placed in PR, while in
PR was grabbing staff badges, attempting to hit head on wall. Pillow placed to wall. Pt
attempting to throw self onto floor, attempted to run while in PR. PR ended at 1717 after pt
stated she could be calm. Pt started to talk to staff about feeling overwhelmed, then ran into
bathroom and attempted to barricade self in bathroom. Pt grabbed shower rod and began
waving it around, threatening staff. Pt made contact with multiple staff members. Pt put in
PR at 1724. Pt continued to attempt to run while in PR. Pt closed eyes, had fainting-like

episode for about 1 minute, resp even/unlabored. Pt able to be startled w/ verbal stimuli. Pt
continuing to yell/scream, expresses both A/VH, states that ' is going to come after
her', states that her sister ' shocked her using the TV remote and that she 'was going to
shoot her if she told'. Told her that she was safe, encouraged her to look at what was real
and focus on what was around her. Pt able to open eyes, name all present staff members. Pt
continuing to shift between escalating and deescalating. Notified provider on call of
situation. Order placed for CR. Pt released from PR at 1740. Talked to pt about chemical
restraint to help w/ pt's A/VH, mood swings, violent outbursts. Pt allowed this RN to
administer thorazine 50mg/2mL IM to R gluteal medius area. Unable to do full assessment
as pt is still elevated, begins to yell when talked to. Pt able to deny h/a, no n/v. Eyes
PERRLA, resp even/unlabored, full ROM noted in all extremities. Gait steady when
walking to day area for med pass. Pt rec'd HS medications. Assessed after administration of
HS medications. Pt is A&Ox4. VS as follows; BP 96/59, HR 93, RR 17, temp 98.1. Pt denies
h/a, dizziness, n/v. Pt states 'I'm just tired'. Pt has bruise to bilat elbows d/t hitting elbows
against during restraint. Bruises purple/red, about 1in in length, 1/2 in. width. Bruises
present to upper arms d/t pulling against staff attempting to escape restraint, 3 bruises to R
arm that are red/purple, about 3cm in diameter and 3 bruises to L arm that are red, about
1cm in diameter. No further s/sx of injury/deformity. No further c/o. Provider on call
notified. Therapist on call present for most of incident. Pt transported to acute care by
MEMs at 2038. Guardian was notified on 08/13/24 at 5:37pm, 9:12pm, and 9:21pm
was transferred via MEMS at 8:38pm to Rivendell for an acute stay where she
still remains at this time.
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was placed in restraint for safety, assessed by the nurse,
and transported to acute care via MEMS.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing reviewed provider reported incident for licensing concerns.
Program Coordinatotr inquired about nursing note and camera footage. Facility provided
documentation and has been uploaded. 8/15/2024, facility reported that camera footage was
saved. Program Coordinator will schedule a day and time to review. 8/21/2024, Program
Coordinator reviewed camera footage for this provider reported incident. Staff were
observed keeping resident safe from harming herself and verbal de-escaltion was used
throughout the incident.