Licensing Narrative: During a camera review of a physical restraint of patient ,
it was determined that staff members and did not perform the
restraint in compliance of facility expectations. Staff hit in the face as a
response to being bitten on the arm. In an effort to stop Hannah from spitting on the staff
members, was seen to have pulled up 's shirt, covering 's mouth and
restricting her ability to freely breathe. No injuries were sustained by the patient. A report of
these findings was made to the Arkansas Mandated Reporter Portal. Reference ID:
Both staff members were placed on administrative leave, pending termination. Received
text message 5/25/23 from Chris Butler of Millcreek that Maltreatment Report was
accepted. Received email from Licensing 5/25/23 that Maltreatment Report was accepted.
Facility visited 5/25/23 and video reviewed of incident. Two staff are seen standing,
and . Client is sitting, staff reportedly asking client to take her
sweatshirt off for contraband search. Client is seen beginning to take her sweatshirt off.
While taking sweatshirt off, staff and grab both sleeves aggressively as to
remove shirt quicker. Client stands up and takes a swing at staff Anderson. The two staff
and an one additional staff take client to the ground. While on the ground, client is
seen biting staff on the arm. Staff Anderson is seen jabbing the face of client
with her right hand with a fist. Staff is then seen pushing her fist against client
's face. Two supervisors are then seen assisting, making total staff/client ratio 5:1. It
then appears that client spits at staff. Staff and are seen pulling client
s undershirt over her head as to prevent her from spitting. Supervisors seem to advise
staff and not to do this at which point client 's shirt is pulled off of her
face. The hold continues without further incident and client is released. Facility cited 109.1g
and 905.4g. As to document sub-regulation 109.1g) Engaging in behavior that could be
viewed as sexual, dangerous, exploitative, or physically harmful to children. Sub-regulation
905.4g) Physical injury or threat of bodily harm. Both staff and
have been suspended pending certain termination from employment by Millcreek. All
Millcreek staff will be retrained on Acadia Zero Tolerance for Abuse and Neglect.