Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 6/26/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 6/27/2023
Facility Name: Piney Ridge Treatment Center
Facility Number: 203
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Child?s Name: (DOB ) resident
Description of report: Resident reported that he swallowed an AAA battery. APRN was
notified and X-Ray was ordered. X-ray confirms foreign object in abdomen. APRN
consulted Children?s hospital and ordered for him to be taken in for consult. Resident was
taken to Children?s Hospital via our transportation. The resident reports that the took the
battery out of the classroom. He got it from a reading device he was using. Date of
occurrence: 06/26/2023 Corrective action taken by the agency or follow up done: Resident
returned from the hospital with orders to monitor for 2 days, clear liquids and then have a
follow-up x-ray to make sure the object is moving as it should. Risk assessment was
complete, the resident is on self-harm precautions and has a staff with him at this time.
Interim Action Narrative:
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: 6/30/2023 - The Provider reported incident was reviewed by
Licensing Specialist Jarred Parnell. Licensing specialist will contact the treatment facility to
inquire further about actions taken by the treatment center to reduce the residents access to
device batteries, ascertain why the resident had the remote, review information concerning
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

staff location and awareness of the incident. Licensing Specialist will inquire about the
health of the resident and any special health requirements administered by staff for the
resident pertaining to the reported incident. 6/29/2023- Facility responded stating that the
resident complained of pain on 6/28/23 so he was taken to the hospital where he was given
a laxative and stayed overnight for observation. The resident passed the battery and has
been released back to the facility. 7/5/2023 - Specialist spoke to Ronissa regarding the
incident. Residents were in the classroom watching T.V. The residents are not doing school
work right now but still have time in the classroom for other activities. Residents were
allowed access to the T.V remote while watching T.V. Staff will limit access to T.V. remotes
for residents by keeping the remotes out of the classrooms and at the desk of the
receptionist. When staff or residents want to watch T.V. the staff in each classroom will go
and retrieve the remotes from the receptionist. Only staff will handle remotes for the
residents. Staff will also check the remotes before the residents leave the classroom to
ensure the batteries are still in the remote. Staff supervise the residents in the classroom as if
the residents were doing school work. The staff to resident ratio is 1:6. swallowed the
battery because he saw another resident do the same and received a lot of attention.
was referred to acute treatment but was not accepted to acute treatment.