Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 029148
Date of Incident: 4/17/2025
Date Received: 4/21/2025
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for
client in our PRTF program and resides in Incident Report date/time:
04/17/25 2:29pm Location of Incident: Incident Description: Aggressive to
Adults, Threat to Safety Staff Involved:
Events
Leading: PT became upset after staff redirected him to stop calling staff slurs. Client began
to curse at staff and proceeded to fart on his peers. PT farted on staff and laughed about it.
Client has been on freeze for over a week and has not fully restored with staff. Staff informed
client that his freeze will be extended due to behaviors and refusal to restore in genuine
matter. Client was told that he could do anything that is safe in his area that was not in
direct vision of the television. PT has colored pencils and paper and refused to engage in
those activities. PT began to threaten to hit staff due him being upset he will not be
removed from freeze. Client continued to curse at staff and grabbed staff computer. 2:29pm-
Personal Restraint: Pt grabbed and attempted to throw staff computer. Staff removed the
computer from client reach. Pt ran behind staff desk and attempted to hit staff. Client was
placed in a personal restraint. PT was in a personal restraint and hit a staff member while
fighting against the hold. Client was in a personal restraint in a chair behind staff desk in
the beginning of the hold. Staff tried to ask the client to calm down and told him that we
want to let him go when he could calm down. Pt was refusing to listen to staff and
screamed. Client told staff he wanted to attack a staff member and was still angry. PT was
escorted away from staff desk while in a personal restraint. Client was restrained in hallway
area behind staff desk area away from other client's view. 2:40pm-Personal Restraint End:
Pt began struggling again, attempting to walk away from staff and thrash arms while in
hold. Additional staff helped support pt and staff and tagged out a team member. Pt was
offered more water and a cool cloth. He accepted staff wiping his forehead with the cloth. Pt
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

ceased in struggling as verbal support continued. Staff encouraged pt to take deep breaths.
Pt was able to contract for safety. Staff asked pt if he needed anything or wanted space and
pt stated he was ok and he continued to decompress. After a few minutes he asked to return
to his room and this was allowed as he was not in seclusion. Patient Debriefing date/time:
04/17/25 2:45pm: Following intervention pt was asked if he was injured to which he pointed
at a superficial mark on his right arm consistent with resisting restraint. Staff asked pt if he
was willing to be assessed by the nurse and he agreed. Staff talked with pt about making
positive choices following mistakes. Pt appeared sad but shook his head in understanding.
Pt was transported via . Nursing Assessment
date/time: 04/17/25 2:42pm: was observed standing in the time out room, continuing
to calm and de-escalate while processing with staff and pacing. He was observed holding a
wet wash cloth. His arms appeared erythemic and a small superficial scratch noted to (R)
antecubital fossa area. Minimal bleeding with scant amount of blood. Erythema also noted
to clavicle area. boasted proudly about being combative and resistant against the
restraint while stating, "He is weak. He can't do anything to me. He isn't a man". This
nurse attempted to explore with the relationship with the team member that
continues to target and threaten. During debriefing the previous day, told the unit
manager that he would continue to go after throughout the shift. began shifting
blame and minimizing his behaviors reporting his freeze was extended for no particular
reason. When recalling the behaviors reported, snidely grinned endorsing and
admitting to: farting on peers and staff, cursing and threatening, intimidating, attempting to
destroy property, becoming physically aggressive to staff, walking into restricted area with
intent to harm staff, testing limits, and refusing to follow instructions. He continued to
arrogantly boast about team members running away from him when he is becoming hostile
and aggressive. He admits that the team member that he seems to target the past few days,
sets clear limits, behavioral expectations, and holds him accountable thus endorsed
deliberately targeting, intimidating, and assaulting this team member in hopes of getting
the team member fired. He appeared to lack any remorse and discussed plan to continue to
attempt to go after this team member with intent to harm. AAOx4. No signs of physical or
mental distress. Appears calm although unpredictable as he continues to voice threats and
display a tense hostile glare. Active ROM to all extremities. Reports is only injury is the
scratch noted to his (R) AC while boasting about how strong he is and endorsing he was
combative and resistant against restraint. No further physical markings, erythema, bruising,
abrasions, deformities, protrusions, lacerations, or edema noted. Gait is steady. was
encouraged to make acceptable choices and reminded of clear behavioral guidelines.
Denies need or desire for wound care for his scratch. Encouraged to explore coping skills to
help defuse tension and while still getting his needs met. Denies concerns. Feels
interventions were appropriate. Attending notified. Freeze for physical aggression
continued. Residential services director working on . Guardian was notified
on 04/17/25 at 3:05pm. 3:11pm. on 04/17/25
at 4:45pm for an .

Interim Action Narrative: Resident was placed in restraints for safety and transported to
.
Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing reviewed provider reported incident for licensing concerns.
Facility provided documentatoin for this provider reported incident. Documentation
reviewed and uploaded. Resident was discharged.