ARR AMS AE
DEPARTMENT OF

4 HUMAN
~_.' SERVICES
Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 601.508.8910 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550

521 Visit Compliance Report

Licensee: Youth Home, Inc.

Facility Number: 128

Licensee Address: 20400 COLONEL GLENN ROAD
LITTLE ROCK AR 72210

Licensing Specialist: Tara Norton
Person In Charge: Adria Riley
Record Visit Date: 5/29/2024
Home Visit Date: 5/29/2024

Purpose of Visit: Subsequent Building and Grounds

Regulations Out of Compliance:

Regulation Number: 900.912.4

Regulation Description: The bathroom shall be clean and sanitary.

Finding Description: One bathroom was noted to have a black substance around the top of the walls near the
ceiling.

Action Due Date:

Action Due Description:

Comply Date:

Action Due Description:

Regulations Needing Technical Assistance:

Regulation Not Applicable:

www.arkansas.gowdhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 1 of 3


Regulations Not Correctable:

Narrative:

Time of Visit: 10:00 am — 10:45 am
Census: 40

Licensing Specialist Norton and Program Coordinator Rice completed buildings and grounds for the
following PRTF houses at Youth Home: Sturgis, Chestnut, Rose, and Mabee. Mr. Jon Pulliam, PRTF Lead
Unit Manager escorted Licensing throughout the buildings and grounds. The following areas were observed:
group rooms, common areas, laundry rooms, seclusions rooms, comfort rooms, milieus, game/craft rooms,
hygiene closets, storage rooms, bedrooms, and bathrooms.

The grounds around each house were clean, free of safety hazards, and appeared to be well-maintained. An
uprooted tree was observed near one of the buildings. According to Mr. Pulliam, the tree would be removed
today or tomorrow by a tree service that is set to come out.

No residents were present during the walk-throughs of the houses due to attending school.

Sturgis: House was mostly clean and organized. Staff reports there are currently eleven (11) residents in the
house. The bedrooms were mostly clean and organized. There were no more than two residents per bedroom.
In ano hadenam acunindaururac Ahearvad wsrith nlinunnd aver it Mr Pulliam ctated that ane of the olace hincks
had been broken and maintenance had been called to repair it. One bathroom was noted to have a black
substance around the top of the walls near the ceiling. The facility will receive a citation 912.4, for a black
substance on the bathroom walls. Before licensing left the house, staff put a call in to maintenance to repair
the window and to address the issue with the black substance on the wall in the bathroom.

Chestnut: House was clean and smelled of cleaning supplies. All bedrooms were clean and mostly organized.
Bathrooms were clean. Hygiene supplies for each resident were stored in a locked closet. Staff reports there
are currently nine (9) residents in the house with no more than one (1) resident per bedroom. All bedrooms are
single rooms. All furnishings throughout the house were safe, clean, and in good repair.

Rose: House was clean and smelled of cleaning supplies. All bathrooms were clean and sanitary with hot and
cold water. Hygiene supplies for each resident were stored in a locked closet. All bedrooms were clean and
mostly organized. Staff reports that there are currently ten (10) residents in the house with no more than two
(2) residents per bedroom. All furnishings throughout the house were safe, clean, and in good repair.

Mabee: House was clean and organized. All bathrooms were clean and sanitary with hot and cold water.
Hygiene supplies for each resident were stored in a locked closet. Staff reports there are currently ten (10)
residents in the house. All bedrooms were mostly clean and organized. All furnishings throughout the house
were safe, clean, and in good repair.

Provider Comments:

www. arkansas.govw/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 2 of 3


CCL Staff Signature Date: 5/29/2024

t
1

v

Provider Signature Date: 5/29/2024

“Bosny DR Tet

www.arkansas,gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 3 of3