Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 5/5/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 5/8/2023
Facility Name: Little Creek Behavioral Health
Facility Number: 255
Incident Type: Dual
Report Description: On 05.04.23, reported to
Behavioral Health Associate that she saw a penis picture that belong to
(BHA) from (BHA).
stated she saw the penis picture (above mention staff) from (BHA) and
also staff (BHA) showed her a picture of a vagina on her cellular device.
, and have all been called into the
, and accepted: referral .
Interim Action Narrative: and were all suspended pending the
outcome of the investigation by the state police. was terminated from LCBH.
Maltreatment Narrative: On 05.04.23, reported to
Behavioral Health Associate that she saw a penis picture that belong to
(BHA) from (BHA).
stated she saw the penis picture (above mention staff) from (BHA) and
also staff (BHA) showed her a picture of a vagina on her cellular device.
, and have all been called into the
, and accepted: referral .
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Licensing Narrative: Licensing received report from Little Creek that on 05.04.23, client
reported to Behavioral Health Associate that she saw a
penis picture that belong to (BHA) from (BHA). Client
stated she saw the penis picture (above mention staff) from (BHA) and
also staff (BHA) showed her a picture of a vagina on her cellular device.
, and have all been called into the
and accepted: referral . Phone call made 5/9/23 to CACD Investigator Linda
Powell who gave permission for licensing to visit facility. Licensing has scheduled a visit
with Ms. Powell at Little Creek 5/9/23 at 10:30AM. Facility visited 5/9/23 from 10:30AM-
12:00PM in response to complaint that Little Creek staff had shown pornographic material
to clients and on their (staff's) phones. Licensing Specialist observed CACD
Investigator Linda Powell interview clients and . Client stated that staff
initiated conversation with her "I want to show you something" regarding male
genitalia then proceeded to show her a picture of a man's penis on her phone. stated
this occurred in the laundry room of her living area and that no other clients or staff
witnessed this. stated she was unsure of when this happened. Client was
interviewed. Client stated that staff showed her a picture of a penis on his
cellphone. Client then stated that made a sexual comment to her regarding
the picture. Client indicated that staff showed her the penis picture a
second time later. Client stated that both these incidents occurred at "the table". Client
stated that staff showed her a picture of a vagina on her cellphone. Client
stated that she believed staff was trying to show her a picture of a "prom dress"
but accidentally showed her a picture of a vagina first, adding that she remembered staff
indicating that she did not mean to show her the nude picture. stated that no
other clients or staff were present when these incidents occurred. Client stated that she
told staff about this after being asked if she had seen any inappropriate pictures on staff
phones following the incident with client . Client stated that she had a conversation
with client following staff asking these questions. Client stated that client
stated "I'm just saying this to protect and ". Little Creek Risk
Management Jlynn Perkins stated that it is facility policy that staff does not have cellphones
inside the facility. Client reported this incident to staff on 5/4/23. This
was called into the Child Abuse Hotline on 5/8/23. Facility cited 110.9: Any owner, operator,
employee, foster parent, or volunteer in a child welfare agency shall immediately notify the
Child Abuse Hotline if they have reasonable cause to suspect that a child has been
subjected to child maltreatment. Mandated Reporter training sent via email to Jlynn Perkins
and Matt Wiltshire 5/9/23. Staff involved or who had knowledge of this incident are to
complete provided training by 5/23/23 and documentation of this will be provided to
licensing. Facility cited 109.1g. Engaging in behavior that could be viewed as sexual,
dangerous, exploitative, or physically harmful to children. Certificates of completion for
Mandated Reporter Online Training provided to Licensing 5/23/23 for Little Creek staff
members: , , , ,
, , and . 6/22/2023- ICA for staff
was lifted and she was returned to work after completing training. Staff had
already been terminated by the facility earlier in the investigation. Licensing informed the

facility for staff to reach out to the investigator for his findings. Licensing
refused to lift the ICA for at this time. 7/5/2023- Licensing emailed the facility to
determine the status of . Facility stated that they have terminated the staff's
employment due to the extensive period away from the facility.