Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 1/8/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 1/9/2023
Facility Name: Little Creek Behavioral Health
Facility Number: 255
Facility Type:
Incident Type: Dual
Report Description: ( -Parent Place), stated she had
a sexual altercation with a staff member (unknown). stated the staff member
followed her into the laundry area and corner her by the counter. and the staff
member exchanged words and kissed, and she slid her pants down, and he placed his finger
inside her vagina. states she does not recall who the staff is, the situation is all a
blur, and she does not remember the date the incident occurred. The timeline is around
Christmas ( not sure if before thanksgiving or after). She reported the incident to supervisor
Terrika Harris. : s mother called the Faulkner
County Sheriff's Department, and they came to the facility on Sunday night.
Interim Action Narrative: No interim action needed due to no alleged offender being
identified.
Maltreatment Narrative: A resident reported that she was sexually assaulted by a male staff
member in the past at the facility in the laundry room. The facility called the
and it was screened out. The Licensing Specialist called the
again and it was accepted for investigation.
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Licensing Narrative: Client reported a sexual assault by a staff
member. Client stated the staff member followed her into a laundry area, cornered her by
the counter, exchanged words, kissed and staff member placed his finger inside of her
vagina. Client states she does not recall who the staff is or the date it happened. The
timeframe is around Christmas, not sure if before or after Thanksgiving. Client reported this
incident to Supervisor Terrika Harris. was called, . Client's
mother called the Faulkner County Sherriff's Depts who came to the facility on Sunday
1/8/23. Facility visited 1/10/23 in response to self-report complaint that client reported
that she was sexually assaulted by a staff member. interviewed. stated that the staff
member who did this was a black male with a goatee in his mid 20's. was asked if she
had seen this person ever again after this incident. replied "once"..."right after". When
asked what if anything was said between this staff and , quickly replied "He asked
'are we good?'"..."I answered, 'we straight'". denied that anything physical occurred
during this second encounter. When asked if could provide a name for this staff
member, she said she could not. When asked what time of the day this occurred replied
"nighttime"..."it could have been anywhere from 9:30 at night to 4 in the morning". When
asked what time of the year this happened replied, "after Halloween...before
Christmas". had initially reported this to Terrika Harris, a Supervisor at Little Creek.
Ms. Harris was interviewed during visit 1/10/23. Ms. Harris stated that would not
provide a description or name of the staff member to her. Jlynn Perkins stated that 4
pictures of current employees had been shown to . stated that none of the pictures
shown to her were the staff encountered during the incident. Little Creek HR provided the
names all males who were employed before Halloween but no longer employed after
Christmas. Two names were produced, (who is now PRN) and
who resigned in November. Pictures of both of these individuals were shown to
client during today's visit. Client denied either of the staff pictures were of the staff
who assaulted her. No definitive evidence presented 1/10/23 could substantiate allegation.
In the event additional information gathered today would assist in this case in the future,
the was called by this Licensing Specialist again in regard to this case.
call, . 2/1/23-
Further information was received and the Program Coordinator reached out to the assigned
investigators via email to determine if there has been any progress in the investigation or an
alleged offender identified. 5/3/2023- No new information is available on the case and the
case has not been closed by the investigator. Licensing will close this case as unfounded
5/3/2023.

Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.508.8910 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
521 Visit Compliance Report
Licensee: Little Creek Behavioral Health
Facility Number: 255
Licensee Address: 161 SKUNK HOLLOW
CONWAY AR 72032
Licensing Specialist: Clayton DeBoer
Person In Charge: Jlynn Price
Record Visit Date: 1/10/2023
Home Visit Date: 1/10/2023
Purpose of Visit: Complaint Visit
Regulations Out of Compliance:
Regulations Needing Technical Assistance:
Regulations Not Correctable:
Narrative:
Facility visited 1/10/23 in response to self-report complaint that client reported that she was
by a staff member. interviewed. stated that the staff member who did this was a black male
with a goatee in his mid 20's. was asked if she had seen this person ever again after this incident.
replied "once"..."right after". When asked what if anything was said between this staff and , quickly
replied "He asked 'are we good?'"..."I answered, 'we straight'". denied that anything physical occurred
during this second encounter. When asked if could provide a name for this staff member, she said she
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year
Page 1 of 2

could not. When asked what time of the day this occurred replied "nighttime"..."it could have been
anywhere from 9:30 at night to 4 in the morning". When asked what time of the year this happened
replied, "after Halloween...before Christmas". had initially reported this to , a Supervisor at
Little Creek. was interviewed during visit 1/10/23. stated that would not provide a
description or name of the staff member to her.
Little Creek HR provided the names all males who were employed before Halloween but no longer employed
after Christmas. Two names were produced, (who is now PRN) and who
resigned in November. Pictures of both of these individuals were shown to client Client denied
either of the staff pictures were of the staff who assaulted her.
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year
Page 2 of 2