Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 023745
Date of Incident: 9/4/2024
Date Received: 9/5/2024
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for
client in our PRTF program and resides in Rose House Incident Report
date/time: 09/04/24 1:12pm Location of incident: Siebert School on the Youth Home
campus Incident Description: Aggressive to Peers, Threat to Safety, Medical
Emergency(Trip to ER/Urgent Care) Staff Involved: Marilyn Howell, Valerie Alvarez,
Caitlin Henthorne Events Leading: Peers were in conflict in class and pt was inserted into
the conflict. Pt expressed not wanting to pick sides but a peer charged at pt, swinging fists.
Pt raised her fists to fight back. Pt was restrained. 1:12pm-Personal Restraint: Pt was placed
in a personal restraint and escorted away from her peer. Pt began swinging to hit peer
several times but once she was guided away from peer, she ceased in attempting to fight.
1:14pm-Personal Restraint End: Once the classroom was clear of the other peers. Pt and
staff sat on the floor. Pt contracted for safety and cried about her head hurting due to being
struck by peer. Patient Debriefing date/time: 09/04/24 1:30pm: Time was spent validating
pt's feelings as she explained her account of the incident. Pt stated she did not want to
"pick sides" in the conflict. While debriefing, pt expressed no concerns with the restraint
but stated her head her significantly from being attacked. Pt was also remorseful towards
staff during debriefing. Pt asked if she could press charges and the nurse stated she would
inform pt's parents of her wishes. After nursing assessment it was determined pt needed to
be sent out for medical care to assess her post being struck in the head. Nursing
Assessment 1 date/time: 09/04/24 1:19pm: was observed sitting against the wall,
next to staff, tearful, diaphoretic, exclaiming her head hurts. She voiced being struck by her
peer on her (L) temple. She reported, "she hit me on my head, and I hit her back". She
stated, "she ran up on me. I told her to calm down, and I told her I wasn't picking sides".
AAOx4. Clear coherent speech although appears overwhelmed, distressed, and in pain. She
voiced significant increased pain and pressure of her (L) temple. Rating pain 10/10. No
signs of slurred speech. Responds appropriately. Pupils initially unequal and slow to
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

respond and small. Anisocoria noted. (L) pupil noted at 4mm and (R) pupil noted at 3mm.
Denies any numbness, weakness, tingling, sensitivity to light or noise, nausea, vomiting,
feeling lightheaded, or nausea. BP: 148/91, HR 90. Temp: 99.2. RR 22 breaths/min,
unlabored. No signs of respiratory distress. No retractions, accessory muscle use, or nasal
flaring. SpO2 saturation 99%. Grip strength bil equal +2. Gait is steady. Bruising beginning
to form on (L) temple and swelling where patient reports being struck. Erythema noted
below (L) eye that appears to be consistent with being struck and alongside (L) jawline.
Able to open and close mouth without difficulty. MD notified of findings. Approved order to
administer ibuprofen 600mg po x1 now and transport to ACH ER for further evaluation and
rule out concussion. continued: was able to swallow without difficulty. No signs of
hoarseness, cough, SOB, or wheezing.She endorsed also being struck on her neck, left side.
She voiced feeling as if her peer struck her in this location (near carotid sinus) with intent to
cause a syncope episode. No visible or apparent physical markings, erythema, or edema
noted to this area. Denies pain at this time. Voiced the pressure in her head continues to
hurt, and is 10/10 pain with 10 being the worst pain. No palpable hematomas noted to scalp.
No apparent physical markings, erythema, bruising, abrasions, deformities, edema, or
protrusions noted from emergency interventions. Active ROM to all extremities. Gait is
steady. To be noted: she has a split on her (R) hand/arm following punching the wall at
some point over the weekend/Monday that was evaluated on Monday at urgent care with
findings: Right hand swelling and tenderness to touch X-ray result
No apparent further injuries noted. Capillary refill less than 3 seconds
and WNL. Injuries to Staff or client: Pt was struck in the head/face and peer was struck as
well. Follow-up to injury: Nursing assessed both pts and sent this pt out to the ER for
assessment due to being struck in the head. Actions that might have prevented injury: If
staff had called for help, perhaps additional staff could've helped separate the class sooner.
However, multiple pts were escalated in the school at the time, making help difficult to
come by. If peer had used coping skills, not attempted to fight, or accepted pt's stance of
not wanting to take sides, injuries would not have occurred. Guardian was notified on
09/04/24 at 1:40pm ER paperwork was emailed to Kendra Slade on 09/05/24
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was assessed by the nurse and evaluated at ER.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing reviewed provider reported incident for licensing concerns.
Facility provided documentation for tihs incident.