Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 027580
Date of Incident: 2/14/2025
Date Received: 2/15/2025
Facility Name: Dacus RTC
Facility Number: 108
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Client Insurance:
- Guardian - State of Residency: Arkansas Client
exhibited aggressive and disruptive behaviors by instigating peers and yelling at staff
during class. Client then got in a physical altercation with 3 peers. Client
and his peers were separated. While in the classroom, Client destroyed property
via throwing and breaking a DVD player as well as breaking off part of the fixated projector.
Client was escorted by staff down to the transitional hallway in which he attempted
to break open the fire extinguisher box and the telephone box. Program Consultant was
called to the facility to assist with the client. Client then proceeded to kick the door
leading to the resident's hallway. Once client was let in the hallway ; he spit on the
door and window. Client then broke the thermostat metal cover box and tore the
thermostat from the wall. Client put screws between his knuckles. As staff made
attempts to see if client was injured he walked toward staff with balled hands and
began to spit. Client's therapist made attempts to calm client; however, client
verbalized threats and gestures to harm her as well. Due to the amount of property
destruction, potential weapons (screws), and continued exhibition of aggressive, Bono
Police Department (BPD) was called to the scene. BPD arrested client and took
him to . BPD was informed client
may return to the facility after stay in . Upon return, client will be placed on
precautions as safety measures and for behavioral observation.
Interim Action Narrative:
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Program Coordinator spoke with (Bono PD) and
requested the police report. Police report received via email, uploaded, and specialist
informed. 2.20.2025-Specialist emailed facility with follow up questions about damages,
placement and precautions. 02.20.2025- Facility replied with the following: "All repairs were
completed the same day the property damage was done. The resident returned to the facility
Monday, February . Upon return to the facility, was placed on Unit restriction
and assault precautions for safety to reduce risk of harm to self and others. However, since
returning , has overall exhibited cooperative and compliant behaviors."