Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 020815
Date of Incident: 4/23/2024
Date Received: 4/24/2024
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for Private
placement client in our PRTF program and resides in Mabee House Incident Report
date/time: 04/23/24 8:00pm Location of Incident: Mabee House Incident Description:
Suicidal, Aggressive to Peers, Threat to Safety, Property Destruction Staff Involved: Kelton
Johnson, Michael Tucker, Kierra Taylor, Marilyn Howell Events Leading: Client had a bad
phone with her parents. Client was upset because of her conversations with peers. She asked
her parents to come get her. Her parents told her that she will not be coming home until she
finishes her treatment. Client was upset. Client started to pace back, and forth. Client
started to kick door down to plan an escape. Client was redirected to stop kicking the door.
Client then charged as though to strike another client. Staff stepped betwen clients to avoid
this conflict. Client then became more angry. Client started to grab electronic cords, and
wrap them around her neck. Staff grabbed the cords and prevented client from wrapping
them around her neck. Client redirected to sit in the milieu and offered to have a talk away
from others in the recreation room. Client sat in a chair in the milieu and became tearful
with staff offering verbal support that they were here for her and offered another area to de-
escalate. Client grabbed for her own neck, and staff provided supportive touch, placing their
hands on hers and prompting to not do this. Client continued crying and lowered her hands.
Staff continued supportive touch, encouraging client to walk with them to the rec room.
Client walked with staff with no resistance, sat in the rec room and continued crying,
processing with staff about the phone call. Nursing Assessment date/time: 04/23/24
8:10pm: She walked into the nurses' station but would not speak or answer my questions.
Redness was noted to her face & neck but no marks apparent. Pt appears to be very upset,
slight body shaking noted, tight posture. I did ask her multiple questions to see what was
going on but she still would not answer. I noticed that there was a male staff member
standing outside of the door pacing/watching and not saying anything. So out of curiosity I
asked him if she was put in a restraint and he stated that she was not. After sitting in nurses'
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

station for a few minutes ended up walking out and went to sit at a table. No acute
distress noted. Guardian was contacted on 04/23/24 at 8:22pm: Spoke with father to inform
him of the events that took place this evening after their phone call. Informed him that pt. is
requesting to go to acute but that is not in the plan at this time. Informed him that she has
orders for front of house, eyeball, and run risk. He stated that he was aware that she was
very upset about them not coming to check her out due to her behavior.
Interim Action Narrative: Staff redirected resident and nurse assessed resident after she
became aggressive and wrapped cords around her neck out of anger. Staff removed cords
from resident's possession to prevent her from wrapping them around her neck.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: 4/25/24 - Licensing Specialist reviewed Provider Reported Incident
for licensing concerns. Will check with facility to see if acute placement is currently needed
or if there have been any other issues. 5/1/24, Licensing Specialist sent email to facility to
review video footage of incident on 5/2/24 at 1:30 p.m. 5/1/24, Visit scheduled for 5/2 at
1:30 p.m. to review video footage of incident. 5/2/24, Facility visited in response to incident.
Camera footage reviewed. Facility cited for 911.15.d.