R
Notice of Incident
Case Number: 030517
Date of Incident: 6/15/2025
Date Received: 6/16/2025
Facility Name: Piney Ridge Treatment Center
Report Description: Today on 06/15/2025 @ 1345 resident asked to be let into
bathroom. Staff completed pockets check and let resident into the bathroom. Staff knocked on the
door around 1350 because staff noticed that resident left the door slightly cracked open. The
resident responded when staff knock. Then around 1354 staff called resident's name and there was
no response and staff asked the 2nd staff to stand by the bathroom door as she was unlocking the
bathroom door. Once staff enter the bathroom staff reported seeing resident sitting on the floor
with her shirt wrapped around her neck with one hand. Staff also reported discoloration to her face.
Staff reported that when she was taking the shirt front around her neck resident didn't put up a
fight. Staff reported that the shirt was a shirt that she was wearing up under her sweat shirt. After
staff took the shirt away resident was taken off the pod into the hallway to process with a Nurse and
staff. Resident completed her risk assessment where she scores high on her suicidal assessment.
Resident stated that she wanted to die and that she thinks that Yellow Rock isn't helping her that she
would rather go acute. Ordered have been place @ 1422 by Doctor where resident is to have
doors crack at all times, sleep in the hallway in the line of sight of staff and remain on the unit for
closer observation. There were no injury and no pain. Resident was able to speak to the on-call
therapist which happened to also be resident's therapist. Will have resident on self-harm and high SI
precaution till resident is able to show safe behaviors. Legal guardian was notified. 6/16/25: We had
an acuity meeting over this resident. We are looking at all options such has medication changes, and
the possibility of either a 1:1 or acute. Follow-up CSSR was completed at the 24-hour mark and she
scored moderate. Same precautions will be ordered at this time.
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov