Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 6/22/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: United Methodist Children's Home Little Rock Campus
Facility Name: United Methodist Children's Home Little Rock Campus
Facility Number: 115
Incident Type: Dual
Report Description: , DHS placement was in the classroom
refusing to go sit at his desk. (staff) began using the Teaching Family
Model to teach to the youth behavior, but continue to ignore her instructions.
sat in the chair in front of and began going back and forth with
each other. One client ( involved himself attempting to take up for
getting in face and hit him in the face. (staff) got between
and to separate the clients. took out of the room, while is
separating that incident and is still going back and forth.
(client) gets involved trying to attack and intervene by stepping in
front of the client. (client) gets up a second time walks in personal space and
kicks him. As and is seperating the and charge
toward and kicks him. The staff goes to break the two clients the client
goes over to and spits on him. intervene by guiding out of the
room. walks over to the bookshelf, (staff) runs over stating "don't touch",
grabs the clients from the back pushing him against the shelf making him hit his head.
then slung over on the desk, then punches her in the face. is
now trying to prevent client from hitting her, (staff) comes over to help seperate the
from still have a hold of shirt while (staff) is trying
to place him in a hold. then grabs one of legs, at this time is on the
floor. release his leg yelling "calm down". (client) runs up kicks
and pour water on him. A report was called in and accepted. The report number is
Corrective Action Plan: was terminated. We will do an in-service
with and other staff members on tantrum management and the crisis
development model.
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Interim Action Narrative: Corrective Action Plan: was terminated. We will
do an in-service with and other staff members on tantrum management and the
crisis development model.
Maltreatment Narrative: Ref# Received email notification 9/5/23 that
maltreatment complaint was unfounded.
Licensing Narrative: Licensing received complaint 6/23/23 that on 6/22/23 staff
shoved client during an incident. was
called, ref# . Corrective Action Plan: was terminated. We will do
an in-service with and other staff members on tantrum management and the
crisis development model. 6/26/23- Program Coordinator emailed the investigator for
permission to contact the agency. Facility visited 6/27/23 in response to complaint that staff
had inflicted physical harm to a client during an altercation. Video
reviewed of classroom where incident took place. Staff and client can be heard
exchanging words. At one point client calls staff a b*itch to which she replied "it
takes one to know one"-facility cited 905.4d: The following disciplinary actions shall not be
used-b) Derogatory comments about the child, the child's family, race or gender. Two other
peers periodically attempt to physically engage during this conversation. Male staff
is present and attempts to prevent the other peers from attacking At one point
staff does not intervene and allows another peer to kick Facility cited 907.2-
Childcare staff shall be responsible to providing the level of supervision, care and treatment
necessary to ensure the safety and well-being of each child at the facility. is seen
standing be a metal bookshelf, turned around facing the bookshelf, seemingly touching
something staff does not want to touch. Staff runs towards grabs him
by his shoulders, head is seen and heard hitting the metal bookshelf. Facility cited
109.1g-Unprofessional conduct in the practice of child welfare activities shall include
without limitation-g) Engaging in behavior that could be viewed as sexual, dangerous,
exploitative, or physically harmful to children. Facility cited 905.4g-The following
disciplinary actions shall not be used g) Physical injury or threat of bodily harm. After
pushing into the bookshelf attempts to swing at staff face. Staff
intervenes as to separate client and staff at this time. Staff is seen putting
her hand on the back of neck and pulling leg during the altercation. At no time is
staff seen attempting to initiate a restraint. Staff was given in-service
retraining from UMCH staff Sherika Williams on 6/23/23. Staff was
terminated from employment at UMCH following this incident. 8/3/2023- Maltreatment
case is still open and pending. 9/5/23-Maltreatment case unfounded.