Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 4/27/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 4/27/2023
Facility Name: Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF
Facility Number: 233
Facility Type:
Incident Type: Dual
Report Description: CACD investigator Jennifer Harper informed Millcreek of an open
investigation reported by an external entity. , Guardian
Custody, DOB: ) reported that Millcreek staff members performed a personal
body search on her while they were looking for contraband. During the search, an unnamed
staff member rubbed her hand against breast. The external investigation is
ongoing. No determination has been made at the time of this report.
Interim Action Narrative:
Maltreatment Narrative: On 4/27/23 CACD investigator Jennifer Harper informed
Millcreek of an open investigation reported by an external entity. Client reported that
Millcreek staff members performed a personal body search on her while they were looking
for contraband. During
Licensing Narrative: On 4/27/23, CACD investigator Jennifer Harper informed Millcreek
of an open investigation reported by an external entity. Client reported that
Millcreek staff members performed a personal body search on her while they were looking
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

for contraband. During the search, an unnamed staff member rubbed her hand against 's
breast. Facility reports 4/27/23 that the external investigation is ongoing, and no
determination has been made at the time of this report. Phone call made 4/27/23 to Chris
Butler of Millcreek. CACD Investigator Jennifer Harper had visited the facility today. A/V
disclosed that it was all female staff who performed the search. A/V did not provide a name
of the A/O. Email sent to Jennifer Harper 4/27/23 who granted permission for licensing to
visit the facility and provided snapshot and ref# of complaint. Licensing phoned Jennifer
Harper 4/27/23. Ms. Harper stated that the A/V stated that nothing sexual took place
during the search, but that she (A/V) did not agree with the search. Ms. Harper stated that
an A/O could not be named as A/V stated that no one person searched her (A/V) more
than any of the others present. Facility visited 5/1/23. 4 staff were present during the search,
Nurse Dana Stephens and direct care staff Sheena Hampton, Mona Heard and Katakawia
Lowe. Ms. Stephens was not working during today's visit. The other staff were all present
and interviewed today. stated that 4 female staff were present during search. stated
that she was searched. She stated that staff were looking for a "vape pen". stated that
she had removed all of her clothing but her shirt and bra. stated that she was "definitely
exposed" from the waist down. stated that she did not feel staff had done anything
inappropriate during the search. Staff Katakawia Lowe interviewed. Ms. L stated that
had a shirt on that extended down to just above her knee. Ms. L stated that was not
asked to pull down her panties, just her pants, but pulled down her panties with her pants.
Staff Mona Heard interviewed. Ms. H stated that had on a shirt that covered her
privates, and that was never exposed. Ms. H stated that was not asked to pull down
her panties, just her pants, but pulled down her panties with her pants. Sheena Hampton
interviewed. Ms. H stated that GR had a shirt on which covered just above her knees. Ms. H
stated that at no time was exposed. Ms. H stated that GR was not asked to pull down
her panties, just her pants, but pulled down her panties with her pants. Facility Risk Mgmt.
Chris Butler consulted who stated that is not facility policy that undergarments be removed
during searched. No persons interviewed today indicated that was asked to remove her
panties. Campus wide in-service training on client search procedures initiated and ongoing
at this time as a precautionary measure. Licensing is not prepared to make a finding as of
5/1/23. Received notification 6/6/23 that maltreatment complaint was unfounded. 521
unfounded notification sent to Millcreek 6/6/23.