July 24, 2023
The Division of Provider Services and Quality Assurance of the Arkansas Department of Human Services
has contracted with Arkansas Foundation for Medical Care (AFMC) to perform Inspections of Care (IOC)
for Inpatient Psychiatric for Under 21. The Medicaid Manual for Inpatient Psychiatric Services for Under
Age 21 was used in the completion of this report.
Deficiencies were noted during the Inpatient Psychiatric Inspection of Care (IOC) conducted at the
following service site on the specified dates:
United Methodist Children’s Home
2002 South Fillmore Street
Little Rock, Arkansas 72204
Facility Provider ID:
Onsite Inspection Date: July 18, 2023
Onsite Inspection Time: 8:53 a.m.
A summary of the inspection and deficiencies noted are outlined below. The provider must submit a
Corrective Action Plan (CAP) designed to correct any deficiency notes in the written report of the IOC.
Accordingly, you must complete and submit to AFMC a Corrective Action Plan for each deficiency noted.
The Corrective Action Plan must state with the specificity the:
(a)Corrective action to be taken.
(b)Person(s) responsible for implementing and maintaining the corrective action; and
(c)Completion date or anticipated completion date for each corrective action.
The CAP must be completed within 30 calendar days of the date of the email notice of the IOC report at
the link provided.
The contractor (AFMC) will:
(a)Review the Corrective Action Plan.
(b)Determine whether the Corrective Action Plan is sufficient to credibly assure future compliance; and
(c)Provide the Corrective Action Plan to the Division of Provider Services and Quality Assurance
(DPSQA).
Please see § 160 of the Medicaid Manual for an explanation of your rights to administrative reconsideration
and appeal. Additionally, the imposition of this Corrective Action Plan does not prevent the Department of
Human Services from prescribing additional remedial actions as may be necessary.

Inspection of Care Summary
Facility Tour:
Upon arrival to facility, AFMC staff was promptly greeted at the locked entrance by a United Methodist
Children’s Home. AFMC was immediately taken to a conference room where they were met by the
Compliance Director and the Corporate Compliance Specialist. AFMC staff received the completed and
signed consent form listing approval for access to the AFMC portal prior to arrival for site visit.
A tour of the facility was completed with the Compliance Specialist. The facility environment was
extremely clean and well-organized. Since AFMC was last at this facility, they have increased their
census significantly and are now taking both male and female clients. According to the Compliance
Specialist, the census is averaging 30 or more clients between the ages of 12 and 17. There were no
environmental concerns noted during the tour. Educational classes and group activities were in session.
Several staff members were observed interacting calmly with clients in the classroom. Staff were able to
answer questions regarding the facility.
Facility Review-Policies and Procedures:
Upon review of the site’s policies and procedures, the following deficiencies were noted:
Rule Deficiency Statement Reviewer Notes
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: HR records did not indicate that all During the personnel record review
221.804; direct care personnel have ongoing it was noted that not all direct care
CFR 42 482.130, education, training, and demonstrated personnel have ongoing education,
483.376 knowledge of techniques to identify training, and demonstrated
staff and resident behaviors that may knowledge of techniques to identify
trigger an emergency safety situation staff and resident behaviors, events
semi-annually. and environmental factors that may
trigger emergency safety situations
on a semi-annual basis.
Personnel Records- Licenses, Certifications, Training:
There were fifteen personnel records requested, three (33%) professional staff and twelve (27%)
paraprofessional staff. During the review of the personnel records, the following deficiencies were noted:
Personnel Rule Credential Outcome Reviewer Notes
Record Validated
Number
SR014356 Medicaid IP Sec. 2: Restraint and Failed The provider lacked documentation
221.804; 42 CFR Seclusion of a Restraint and Seclusion training
482.130, 483.376 Training (CPI) refresher. CPI was last completed on
12/28/2022. The employee received
a warning from the provider on
07/17/2023, notifying them they
could not work until the refresher
was completed. The employee,
however, has been working with an
expired refresher and the last date
worked was 07/15/2023. The
provider noted that the employee is
scheduled for CPI training on July
30, 2023.
SR014130
United Methodist Children’s Home – Little Rock – IOC Report 2 | P ag e

The provider lacked documentation
of a Restraint and Seclusion training
refresher. CPI was last completed on
11/22/2022.
Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality of Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list
was requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was
completed. The following is a summary of findings and noted deficiencies.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no client
interviews were conducted.
Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no clinical
records reviews were conducted.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
Clients were observed in the classroom and in a group therapy session in the dayroom on the girl’s unit.
Staff were engaged with the clients and were providing a therapeutic environment that was conducive to
learning.
Medication Pass:
During the tour of the medication room, AFMC staff knocked on the medication room door. Facility staff
member opened door wearing cutoff jean shorts, t-shirt, and did not have an identification badge on.
When AFMC staff asked facility staff if they were the medication nurse, facility staff answered no.
AFMC staff asked to speak with the nurse who was giving medications to the client and this facility staff
then identified themselves as the medication nurse for this shift. AFMC staff voiced concern to the
Compliance Specialist regarding staff not having appropriate identification visible while administering
medications and medical care to clients. The Compliance Specialist stated that it is the facility’s policy
that all staff members wear an ID badge, and they will address this with the Director of Nursing
immediately.
No Medicaid clients received medications during medication pass. Due to the observation of non-
Medicaid clients not being complaint with the HIPAA minimal necessary rule, no medication pass was
observed. AFMC RN visited with the medication nurse who was able to show AFMC RN the facility
policies and procedures regarding medication administration, narcotic count/reconciliation/handling, and
medication discrepancies. Tour of medication room completed with a facility medication nurse and no
discrepancies with medication storage, cleanliness of medication room, and knowledge of medication
dispensing found.
Corrective Action Plan:
The CAP must be completed within 30 calendar days of the date of the email notice of the IOC report
available for review. The IOC Report and Request for Corrective Action can be accessed through the link
to AccessPoint, provided via email.
*For more details on the individual related deficiencies, please log into the portal.
United Methodist Children’s Home – Little Rock – IOC Report 3 | P ag e

Respectfully,
AFMC Inspection Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
United Methodist Children’s Home – Little Rock – IOC Report 4 | P ag e