R
Notice of Incident
Case Number: 030348
Date of Incident: 6/7/2025
Date Received: 6/9/2025
Facility Name: Woodridge Behavioral Care LLC
Report Description: Check appropriate box. Once form is completed, send to the Office of Long-
Term Care and the Disability Rights Center, Inc at the fax numbers listed below. ? Serious injury
requiring outside medical attention ? Resident?s attempted suicide ? Allegation of abuse/neglect
related to a restraint ? Resident?s death ? AWOL/Elopement X Allegation of physical abuse ? Sexual
Misconduct X Other, Emergency Room Treatment Patient/Resident Name/DOB:
Name of Perimeter Staff Making Notification Date Time Name of Person Notified
Signature and title of staff completing this form Date: Name of
Facility: Perimeter Behavioral of the Ozarks Phone Number: 479-957-9857 ext. 108 Street Address,
City, State, Zip: 2466 S. 48th Street Suite B. Springdale, AR 72762? Please describe the incident: On
June 7, 2025, at approximately 19:25, resident intentionally ingested two batteries
removed from a television remote. The medical provider was immediately consulted and facility
transport was arranged; by two staff
members. Upon evaluation, an
The medical provider determined that the batteries should pass without complications.
was discharged with instructions to monitor for signs of gastrointestinal bleeding (in stool or
emesis). On the afternoon of June 8, 2025, an
as interviewed by the Later
that evening, disclosed to a facility nurse that: , allegedly
knelt on her neck during a restraint and , allegedly pinched
her on the arm. Actions Taken: Resident
placed on Suicide Ideation and Self-Harm: Line of Sight
Constant, Contraband Search, Paper Scrubs, and Restricted to Unit Staff receiving corrective action
for failing to secure objects
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

, while internal/external investigation is ongoing
, while internal investigation is ongoing Opened
Investigation (ongoing) Updated guardian as needed