August 13, 2024
United Methodist Children’s Home
2002 S Fillmore St
Little Rock, AR 72204-4909
The Division of Provider Services and Quality Assurance (DPSQA) of the Arkansas Department of Human
Services has contracted with Arkansas Foundation for Medical Care (AFMC) to perform Inspections of Care
(IOC) for Inpatient Psychiatric Services for Under 21. The Medicaid Manual for Inpatient Psychiatric Services
for Under Age 21 was used in the completion of this report.
Observations and any deficiencies noted are listed below for the inspection conducted at the following service
site on the following date:
United Methodist Children’s Home
Provider Medicaid ID:
Onsite Inspection Date: August 08, 2024
Onsite Inspection Time: 8:49 AM
A summary of the policies reviewed, and finds are noted below:
Inspection of Care Summary
Health and Safety-Policy Review
This additionally ordered inspection was triggered by a complaint against United Methodist Children’s Home.
Based on the nature of the incident, the following were requested for review:
• Policies
• Staffing Schedules and Daily Census from July 1, 2024, until date of IOC
• Personnel Records
• Client file of the alleged victim
Health and Safety Deficiencies:
Upon review of the site’s policies, procedures, and certification requirement, no deficiencies were noted.
Observations:
Upon arrival at the facility, AFMC staff was promptly greeted at the entrance by a United Methodist Children’s
Home receptionist in the main lobby. AFMC was immediately taken to a conference room where they were met
by the Compliance Director and the Corporate Compliance Specialist. AFMC staff received the completed and
signed consent form listing approval for access to the AFMC portal prior to arrival to the site visit. Facility staff
were given the Document Request Form, and AFMC staff discussed the requirements for the Inspection of Care.
A tour of the facility was completed with the Corporate Compliance Specialist and the Nurse Manager. Areas
toured included the boys’ and the girls’ units including the dayrooms and clients’ rooms, the seclusion rooms,
medication room, cafeteria, gymnasium, and outdoor courtyard. The facility environment was extremely clean,
well-organized, and appeared to be in good repair. Therapeutic group activities were in session on both units.
Staff were able to answer questions regarding the facility.

Upon entering the girl’s unit, AFMC staff noted one female adolescent client sitting quietly at a table drawing.
AFMC noted the only visible staff member present on the unit at this time was a housekeeper. AFMC staff
asked the Nurse Manager who was giving the tour if it was facility policy for clients to be left in the care of
housekeeping. The Nurse Manager did ask the housekeeper where the staff responsible for the client was
located, and the housekeeper stated the Behavioral Instructor (BI) was in the bathroom. The Nurse Manager
stayed with the client until the BI returned. Upon personnel file review it was noted that the housekeeping staff
was not properly trained to supervise clients. They did not have current CPR nor restraint and seclusion training.
While visiting with the facility nurse in the medication room, AFMC staff observed the alleged victim come to
the window of the medication room inquiring about getting treatment for a wound on their foot. Staff nurse
excused herself from the conversation to take care of the wound. AFMC staff observed the alleged victim take
flip flops off and lay across the furniture. No dressing was noted on the wound of their right foot.
Additional Health and Safety Policy Review:
Based on the nature of the incident, the following additional policies were requested for review:
• Incident Reporting Policy
• Critical Incident Logbook
• Skin and Wound Assessment Policy
• Nurse On-Call Policy
• Vital Signs Policy – Per facility staff, there is no policy regarding frequency of vital signs.
• Staffing Policy
• BI Job Description
• Nurse Job Description
Personnel Records – Licenses, Certifications, Training:
There was a total of nine professional personnel records reviewed. There were no deficiencies noted during the
personnel record review.
Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
AFMC was provided with the alleged victim’s file for review.
The provider uploaded records which were then reviewed for compliance with licensure standards. Based on the
review of clinical components of licensure requirements, the following deficiencies were noted:
Record Rule Deficiency Statement Reviewer Notes
Number
RR0035188 IP Psych Restraint or seclusion intervention was Upon review of the restraint and seclusion
221.702 used as a means of coercion, discipline, log, numerous incidents of restraint and
convenience or retaliation. seclusion have been utilized on this client
since admission. No restraint or seclusion
documentation submitted for review.
RR0035188 IP Psych Physician order was not specific to the Multiple incidents of restraint and seclusion
221.702, acute incident requiring the use of have been utilized on this client since
221.703, restraints or seclusion. 24 admission. No restraint or seclusion
221.704 documentation submitted for review.
RR0035188 IP Psych A face-to-face assessment of the Upon review of the restraint and seclusion
221.703 physical and psychological well-being log, numerous incidents of restraint and
of the resident was not completed seclusion have been utilized on this client
within 1 hour of the initiation of the since admission. No restraint or seclusion
emergency safety intervention by a documentation submitted for review.
physician or other licensed practitioner.
United Methodist Children’s Home – Little Rock, AR – IOC Report 2 | P ag e

Record Rule Deficiency Statement Reviewer Notes
Number
RR0035188 IP Psych The order for restraint or seclusion does Upon review of the restraint and seclusion
221.703 not include the date and time the order log, numerous incidents of restraint and
was obtained. seclusion have been utilized on this client
since admission. No restraint or seclusion
documentation submitted for review.
RR0035188 IP Psych The start and stop times of the Upon review of the restraint and seclusion
221.703 emergency safety intervention were not log, numerous incidents of restraint and
documented. seclusion have been utilized on this client
since admission. No restraint or seclusion
documentation submitted for review.
RR0035188 IP Psych The name(s) of the staff involved in the Upon review of the restraint and seclusion
221.703 emergency safety intervention were not log, numerous incidents of restraint and
documented. seclusion have been utilized on this client
since admission. No restraint or seclusion
documentation submitted for review.
RR0035188 IP Psych The documentation of the intervention Upon review of the restraint and seclusion
221.703 was not completed by the end of the log, numerous incidents of restraint and
staff's shift. seclusion have been utilized on this client
since admission. No restraint or seclusion
documentation submitted for review.
RR0035188 IP Psych The intervention was not conducted Upon review of the restraint and seclusion
221.703 within the time limitations for the log, numerous incidents of restraint and
client's specific age. seclusion have been utilized on this client
since admission. No restraint or seclusion
documentation submitted for review.
RR0035188 IP Psych The order for the emergency safety Upon review of the restraint and seclusion
221.703 intervention does not include the length log, numerous incidents of restraint and
of time for which the physician or other seclusion have been utilized on this client
licensed practitioner permitted by the since admission. No restraint or seclusion
State and the facility to order restraint documentation submitted for review.
or seclusion authorized its use.
RR0035188 IP Psych The date and time the team physician Upon review of the restraint and seclusion
221.704 was consulted was not documented in log, numerous incidents of restraint and
the resident's record. seclusion have been utilized on this client
since admission. No restraint or seclusion
documentation submitted for review.
RR0035188 IP Psych There is no documentation of the Upon review of the restraint and seclusion
221.707 facility notifying the resident's parent(s) log, numerous incidents of restraint and
or legal guardian(s) as soon as possible seclusion have been utilized on this client
after a serious occurrence. since admission. No restraint or seclusion
documentation submitted for review.
RR0035188 IP Psych There is no documentation of a face-to- Upon review of the restraint and seclusion
221.709 face post intervention debriefing within log, numerous incidents of restraint and
24 hours after the use of restraint or seclusion have been utilized on this client
seclusion with staff involved and the since admission. No restraint or seclusion
Client. documentation submitted for review.
RR0035188 IP Psych There is no documentation of a post Upon review of the restraint and seclusion
221.709 intervention debriefing within 24 hours log, numerous incidents of restraint and
after the use of restraint or seclusion seclusion have been utilized on this client
with all staff involved. since admission. No restraint or seclusion
documentation submitted for review.
United Methodist Children’s Home – Little Rock, AR – IOC Report 3 | P ag e

Summary of Findings and Resolution:
Below in a synopsis of events for the alleged victim:
• Client admitted to United Methodist Children’s Home on 2024.
• On July 18, 2024, the client became upset after staff took their papers and began kicking doors in the
hallway. The client broke through the magnetic locking doors on hallway and attempted to break through
the magnetic locking doors into the boy’s unit. When the client kicked the door, the client’s toe got stuck
in the magnetic lock and client pulled foot away, injuring the fifth digit of right foot. Initially the client
refused assessment and walked around foyer of unit dripping blood and smearing blood onto walls and
floor. Once the client became compliant with assessment, the wound was assessed and cleaned by nurse
and reported to the APRN who ordered the client to be transferred to
for further evaluation and treatment via EMS. Client returned approximately 6.5
hours later after receiving studies revealing a
Client was placed on for wound. The client also was given an to wear to
protect wound from further injury. Once the client returned to the facility, the client was aggressive toward
staff and tried attacking staff members. Staff had to call the on-call nurse in to facility (licensed nurses
are on-call and not in-house from 10:00p.m. until 6:00a.m. each night) to assist with client behaviors. The
client removed the orthopedic boot and refused to wear it.
• Documentation daily after the client returned from the emergency department stated that the client was
non-compliant with the wound care and refused treatment numerous times. The client would remove the
dressing from the wound and refused to wear shoes throughout the facility. Staff documented numerous
times daily of encouraging the client to put flip flops on. Staff also documented daily that the wound was
cleaned and redressed due to the client removing dressing and that the client was dragging foot across the
floor, carpet, and furniture after removing dressing, and pulling scab off until wound would bleed.
• On July 31, 2024, the RN Nurse Manager assessed the client’s wound to the right fifth toe. In the
assessment, the nurse manager stated that the wound appeared to be worse and had dehisced at wound
edges with greenish-yellow exudate present in wound with some areas of dark discoloration/black
appearing tissue without odor. Tip of right fifth toe appeared red and inflamed. The APRN was called and
updated with wound pictures sent. APRN instructed nursing staff to send the client to
for further evaluation and treatment. The client stayed at for wound
care and and returned to the facility on 2024. Upon returning to facility
the wound had steri-strips applied and covered with dressing. The client continued to remove the dressing
numerous times daily and continued to pick at the wound.
• On August 7, 2024, staff documented the client’s right fifth toe appeared dirty with pieces of hair noted
in the wound. There was dried up yellow tinted discharge and the wound had discolored, darkened areas
suggestive of dead tissue/necrosis observed. The nurse cleansed the wound, removed debris as much as
possible, applied multiple steri-strips firmly, and covered the toe with two bandages. Nursing continued
to document the client’s noncompliance with leaving the dressing on, picking at wound, and not wearing
appropriate shoes.
Below are findings based on review of the critical incident reports:
• Upon review of the critical incident report logbook, AFMC staff noted that there were missing times,
missing details, and follow-up was not documented.
• Critical incident reports were reviewed for the alleged victim during the timeframe of received complaint.
Below is a summary of reviewed incident reports and outcomes:
o On July 16, 2024, at 8:15 p.m. per the critical incident report, the client got upset after staff would
not allow client to take books to their room. The client began yelling and screaming and becoming
aggressive as staff put the client’s books back in the coping skills closet. The client pushed staff
while he was walking out the door. A staff member backhanded the client hitting the client in the
face. Other staff intervened, removing the client from the dayroom. The client continued to be
aggressive toward staff and staff had to hold the client away from the staff member who had the
client’s books. The client continued to hit and punch at staff and hit the staff member holding the
books in the face injuring their nose. The client grabbed their books and kicked their way through
the doors of the unit. The client received a chemical restraint. The client was assessed by the nurse
and was found to have no markings or bruises.
United Methodist Children’s Home – Little Rock, AR – IOC Report 4 | P ag e

o On July 18, 2024, at 6:15 p.m. per the critical incident report, the client asked to be excused during
dinner. The client entered the hallway and crossed over into the dayroom grabbing their book.
The staff told the client that they couldn’t have their book until dinner was over. The client got
upset and refused to respond to the staff, yelling profanities at the staff. The client was kicking at
the magnetic lock door and was able to get to the elevator area. The client heard the elevator
coming and kicked the elevator door. The client then started kicking at the magnetic locked door
to enter the foyer area. While kicking at the door the client cut “pinky toe” on right foot. The
nurse was informed of the incident and the ambulance was called.
o On July 22, 2024, at approximately 6:45 p.m. per the critical incident report, the client got off
task because they couldn’t find their books. The client began to dump out Legos, markers, color
pencils, etc. The client began making verbal threats to attack the staff and throwing objects at
staff. The client threw dominos causing them to break. The client then began to make threats of
cutting with the broken dominos. The client refused to pick up the spilled items and pushed
through staff and began kicking at the door. The client was able to be redirected to sit down and
calm down.
o On July 31, 2024, at 1:08 p.m. per the critical incident report, the client was in the cafeteria and
the client was trying to step on another client’s heel, hitting his “pinky toe” on the edge of the
table. The nurse was notified and put peroxide and a band-aid wrap on the client’s toe.
o On August 4, 2024, time not documented per the critical incident report the client got upset
because he couldn’t play the video game. The client went into a “tantrum” screaming. The client
was observed picking at toe and trying to twist skin off making it bleed.
• AFMC staff spoke with one of the direct care nurses regarding the above incidents. The nursing staff
member was able to verbalize much more details about the above incidents. Nursing documentation also
provided much more detail regarding the client’s behaviors as well as detailed wound assessment and
follow-up care including the client having to be transferred to for continued
care on 2024, and 2024. AFMC staff spoke with the nurse manager and the BI supervisor
who both relayed that the critical incident reports are only completed by the BI. When asked if an incident
occurs that isn’t witnessed by a BI but instead a licensed nurse who fills out the incident report, and the
nurse manager and BI supervisor both stated the BI will still fill out the critical incident report. When
asked if any training was given to staff on how to fill out a critical incident report, the supervisory staff
stated no. AFMC staff did speak with the Corporate Compliance Officer regarding the lack of important
details such as wound assessments, missing times, and no follow-up.
• AFMC staff noted the Critical Incident Report Policy implies that a witness to the incident will fill out
report. The policy states the narrative section will contain a detailed description of the incident and the
use of presumptive descriptors (i.e. patient was aggressive) will not be used. The Policy also states that
the staff will complete the follow-up section and what information must be included.
Below are other related findings based on requested policies:
• AFMC staff requested daily staffing per shift and client census from July 1, 2024, until August 8, 2024.
Facility staff were unable to provide adequate documentation of staffing for each shift and what the census
was each shift to determine if staffing was appropriate based on facility’s staffing policy.
• AFMC staff requested a copy of the On-Call Nurse Policy for review. The facility does not staff an in-
house licensed nurse after 10:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. The on-call nurse is required to be available by phone
and must respond to the facility within 30 minutes of receiving a phone call if needed. The on-site staff
will contact the on-call nurse regarding any medical concerns, restraints, or need for physician input on
client behaviors. Once having received a call, the nurse is required to advise on-site unlicensed staff on
medical issues and if needed respond to the hospital to assess or provide care for the client(s).
• AFMC staff requested a copy of the Vital Signs Policy. Routine vital signs to include temperature, heart
rate, respiratory rate, blood pressure, and pain scale is a way to assess for infection and psychotropic
medication reactions. The facility does not have a policy stating the frequency of how often or when it
should be appropriate for vital signs to be taken. AFMC staff visited with the facility nurse who stated
vital signs are taken upon admission and once weekly. Facility nurse also stated the staff try to take all
weekly vital signs on Mondays but sometimes they get missed or the client refuses, so they will continue
daily to try to obtain vital signs, but there is no written standard.
United Methodist Children’s Home – Little Rock, AR – IOC Report 5 | P ag e

Respectfully,
Inspection of Care Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
United Methodist Children’s Home – Little Rock, AR – IOC Report 6 | P ag e