Incident # 23-00570 Bono Police Department Report Date 10/14/23
Page 2 of 2 Incident Report Report Time 10:10 PM
Suspect #1
SSN/ID/TIN Title Name DOB Age Sex Resident Status
M Nonresident
Race White Ethnicity DL (#, ST) Email
Not Hispanic/Latino ,
Home Phone Work Phone Other Phone Personal Cell Work Cell
US Citizen Legal Alien Doc Type Immig Doc # Nationality
Yes
Home Address Employer
211 Church ST,Bono, AR 72416
Work Address Occupation
Height Weight Eyes Build AKA
- -
Narrative & Statements
Narrative - Morgan, Don - 10/14/2023 10:20:32 PM (Initial)
On 10/14/2023 I Officer Morgan was first dispatched to Methodist Family Health in reference to a 13 year old
male that was uncontrollable. Upon arrival I spoke with Autum Hurst. Hurst lead me into a large room where the
suspect was sitting. I first tried talking to him and he told me to shut up and leave him alone. I continued talking
to him and he eventually settled down and talked to me. The program nurse and another staff member came in
and we were able to get the suspect settled down and we thought all was well.
Later on that evening 10/14/2023 I received another call from dispatch in reference to the same suspect and
location. This time when I arrived I spoke with Behavioral Therapist Kyle Wesley. He stated that suspect was
again acting out. Kyle advised that the suspect became angry when he was told he could not be in his room. He
hid under his bed until the nurse came into the room. At that point he came out from under his bed and began
hitting his head against the wall. Kyle stated that he asked the suspect if he was hungry. Suspect grabbed the
food and threw it at Kyle. Suspect then started punching Kyle and bit him. Kyle advised that he grabbed suspect
to restrain him and suspect began to kick him. Suspect was placed in group 2 side where he urinated on the
other patients doors and in their rooms.
Kyle advised me that he wanted to press charges on suspect for hitting and biting him. I contacted Juvenile
Officer Keith Michael with Craighead County. I advised Michael of the charges and he advised that he would get
in touch with Craighead County Juvenile Detention Center to see if they would be able to take suspect. Michael
called me back and stated that they would not take him unless Boone County would pay for the jail bill for
suspect being jailed there, since he was from Boone County. I spoke with Mrs. Lindsey who is suspects DHS
case worker from Harrison Arkansas. She advised the preferred action would be for Methodist Family Health to
take suspect to an emergency department and have him assessed. Kyle advised me that they would start
working on suspects transfer but it would take a couple days.Nothing further to report at this time.
Copyright Relativity Inc.© - RPS(Relativity Public Safety)
Printed : 11/17/2023 2:25:49 PM