Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.508.8910 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
521 Visit Compliance Report
Licensee: Perimeter of the Ozarks
Facility Number: 237
Licensee Address: 2466 SOUTH 48TH STREET
SPRINGDALE AR 72766
Licensing Specialist: Michele Sutton
Person In Charge: Cassondra Sowder
Record Visit Date: 2/3/2023
Home Visit Date: 2/3/2023
Purpose of Visit: Self Report Visit;Subsequent Building and Grounds
Regulations Out of Compliance:
Regulations Needing Technical Assistance:
Regulation Not Applicable:
Regulations Not Correctable:
Narrative:
Completed buildings and grounds/self-report visit this date.
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 1 of 2

All units within ratio at time of visit, all residents were observed to be within LOS of staff members at time of
visit. Ratios: Green 2:9, Orange 2:10, Classroom 1 3:8. Licensing specialist viewed all bedrooms and
dayrooms on each unit and there were no safety hazards noted. The tiles in bathroom of room 205 have been
repaired, and the tiles in showers of room 305 have been repaired. The grounds remain out of use until the
roofing project is completed on the building due to the presence of contraband materials such as nails and
sharp sheet metal.
Licensing specialist observed classroom 1 engaged in an activity with the facility activity coordinator.
Monthly activity calendar not available at time of visit because activity director was out most of the week with
the inclement weather. However, facility provided a list of activities that were provided to residents this week
including exercise groups, therapy groups, arts and crafts, and team building exercises.
Facility provided a list of all new hires for month of January 2023 as per CAA requirements and confirmed
that they are no longer using temporary staffing agencies.
Licensing specialist followed up regarding recent facility self-reports of self-harm incidents: resident has
been placed on a detailed, individualized, signed, safety contract which outlines interventions and for
self-harm behaviors and incentives for safe behaviors that was developed with her input. Interventions include
1:1 while in the classroom, regular room searches, and processing using grounding activities. disclosed to
facility staff that she has been hiding contraband in a very narrow gap between her bed and the wall (bed is
bolted to the floor and does not move). The gap is too small for a hand to fit through, so she was sliding a
folder in the gap to retrieve items. Staff has used a rod to remove all contraband items from the gap and are
implementing regular room searches on the units. CEO is in process of training all staff on how to complete a
thorough room search. The other incidents of self-harm, which primarily involved fingernail scratches are
being addressed by staff re-training on de-escalation and continued programmatic changes to ensure residents
are engaged throughout the day. There is also a standing order to trim and cut resident fingernails as needed.
No citations in areas viewed.
Provider Comments:
CCL Staff Signature : Date: 2/3/2023
Provider Signature : Date: 2/3/2023
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 2 of 2