Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 023083
Date of Incident: 8/7/2024
Date Received: 8/8/2024
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for
t client in our PRTF program and resides in Sturgis House Incident Report
date/time: 08/07/24 1:45pm Location of Incident: Sturgis House Incident Description: Self
Injury (Not Suicidal), Medical Emergency(Trip to ER/Urgent Care) Staff Involved:
Events Leading: This nurse
responded to a nurse call to Sturgis. reported that he was attempting to clean out
the trash beside his bed with his comb, yawned, and swallowed a screw. Nursing
Assessment 1 date/time: 08/07/24 1:45pm: This nurse responded to a nurse call to Sturgis.
reported that he was attempting to clean out the trash beside his bed with his comb,
yawned, and swallowed a screw. He then would alter his story as more questions were
asked. AAOx4. general appearance is healthy. Dressed fairly appropriate in his Pjs.
Poor hygiene as he presents with a mild odor. Speech fairly clear(mumbling) and coherent,
WNL for this client. No signs of hoarseness, coughing, gagging, retching, drooling, nausea,
or vomiting. RR 18/min, unlabored. No retractions, accessory muscle use, or nasal flaring.
Skin is pink, warm, and dry. Clear lung sounds in all lobes. No adventitious sounds,
wheezing, or stridor. SpO2 99%. No signs of oropharynx obstructions, abrasions, ulcers, or
lacerations. Denies pain in mouth, neck, throat, or chest. Airway patent. No signs of
respiratory distress. Abd is fairly soft, symmetric, and non-tender without distention. No
palpable masses. No signs of rigidity or guarding. Bowel sounds are present and
normoactive in all four quadrants. He reports last BM this morning, rating "4 or 6" on the
Bristol stool scale. He admits to recent straining and difficulty passing stool the past few
days. After this nurse completed the abd assessment, client then started guarding his upper
abd quad reporting a "stabbing sensation". Able to swallow without difficulty. Patient
continues to alter story and presents with unreliable history. He was challenged on
conflicting parts of his history and report. BP: 152/90, HR 109. Avoidant of eye contact and
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

use of excessive hand gestures to plead his case with mumbling (WNL for this client). He
attempted to show this nurse as he crawled under his bed, explaining. He was challenged
again in which he admitted to lying about how the screw initially fell into his mouth. He
denies intentionally ingesting. Denies any current thoughts of self-harm or SI. He reports
last incident of self-harm was approx. last Friday. He endorsed some feelings of
hopelessness and sadness. He discussed wanting to come off TRS. He reported he had a
session with his CT earlier today and feels it went well. He discussed he was provided more
assignments. The size of the reported screw varied as well as how the screw went down the
esophagus. Patient also disclosed locations in his room where screws were missing. He was
challenged into how the screw from his door was under his bed. voiced uncertainty
and feelings of anxiety. He voiced frustration and displeasure that his CT has been notified.
The metal detector wand did not signal any signs of metal object. Attending MD and CT
notified. He is NPO (nothing by mouth) while he remains under close observation. Nursing
Assessment 2 date/time: 08/07/24 7:28Pm: Pt told nursing staff earlier in shift that pt
'accidentally swallowed screw'. See previous Nursing page. Upon this nurses assessment, pt
states that he 'swallowed a mechanical screw while under the bed reading what people
wrote'. Pt states that he believes that 'someone put a screw under the bed to hide it and
when it fell it went down his throat and he couldn't stop it'. Pt states that screw was about
'3-4 inches'. Pt affect is calm, pt is alert and oriented to self and situation. Speech
clear/coherent. VS as follows: BP 122/69, HR 84, RR 18, temp 97.9. Resp even, unlabored.
Airway patent. Breathing clear to auscultation. Pt states that he had one BM this AM that
was a 5-6 on the Bristol chart. States that he has been constipated lately. Bowel sounds
normoactive in all four quadrants when auscultated. Pt endorses pain in middle upper abd
area. Denies pain when swallowing, denies pain when abd is pressed on, no
guarding/rigidity. Pt denies n/v. No drooling, gagging. Provider notified of findings. Due
to pt's c/o pain and statement that he swallowed a screw, pt taken to ACH ER. Pt taken to
ACH ER at 1935 by staff. Staff reported that
No further updates were rec'd this shift. Nursing
Assessment 3 date/time: 08/07/24 11:53pm: Resting in bed but was easily awakened by staff
who gave directs to take night time meds. Alert and oriented. No visible signs or symptoms
of distress. No complaints of pain or discomfort. Vital signs: 118/71 80 Pulse ox 96% 18.
Took night time meds without any difficulty. Requested crackers afterwards. Seemed to be
in good spirits as evidenced by talking with this nurse about future plans to join army and
how what's learned @ Youth Home will be beneficial in the years to come. Remains on
Eyeball and Front Of House. Will continue to monitor. Guardian was notified on 08/07/24
at 2:30pm and 7:20pm. Guardian was also notified on 08/08/24 at 12:04am ER paperwork
has been emailed to
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was assessed by the nurse and sent to ACH ER for an
evaluation.

Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Program Coordinator reviewed provider reported incident for
licensing concerns and uploaded documenation from the facility. 8/9/2024, Prorgam
Coordinator inquired about timeframe of resident being seen at ACH. Faciltiy reported the
direct care staff and medical team were collecting information to determine if there was any
merit to the resident's claim about the object. The information that the resident gave to staff
changed multiple times during the interview. When nursing called the residentt's father, he
insisted on speaking to his son to determine if he was telling the truth about the situation.
The resident showed no signs of acute distress, he did not choke, no trauma to the throat,
no hoarseness, his airway was patent, breathing not labored, respiration were normal rate
and rhythm. Resident was eating and drinking without difficulty as well. There were no
signs that would deem this a medical emergency. The decision was made to send him out
for evaluation and then staff had to be arranged to take him to ACH. Facility also reported
that maintenance is removing the wooden furniture from the resident?s bedroom to
hopefully making it more difficult to acquire screws.