Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 9/4/2023
Date Received by DCCECE:9/5/2023
Facility Name: Delta Family Health and Fitness for Children
Facility Number: 172
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: What was the staff/client ratio at the time of the elopement? Yes 3
coaches Did staff allow them to ?jump? the fence to retrieve balls? No the balls are in the
fence. Were the clients seen by the nurse upon returning to the facility? If so, can you send
me the nursing notes? Yes, notes will be emailed How long from time of elopement was the
Hamburg Police Department called? The boys jumped the fence at 10:40 and a staff
member, Mrs. Felicia, was on break outside and called HPD as soon as she saw the boys
jump. , DCFS: Treva Crockett (Pulaski County ) On
September 4 at 10:40 am while clients were getting ready to return inside from outside
activity, client , Proceeded to jump the fence, Client
asked staff Brianna and Edward "do we need to pick up the balls and that's when client
jumped the fence, behavior coach Edward notified other staff members we
had runners, that's when shift leader Marquita was sitting in class and heard the nose and
started running behind coach Edward ran through the front door out into his vehicle
behavior coach Edward saw client sitting on the fence line on the right side of the highway
when behavior coach Edward turned around to approach them they ran across the highway
down a trail to a creek. Police were notified and participated in the search. Dea Hill, Dr.
Vora, and On Call DCFS: Client was found and returned by police at 13:12
, DCFS: Quincy Smith (Crittenden County) On 9/4/23 @
10:40am, group of boys were outside playground. They were getting ready to return inside,
and 2 male peers jumped the outside fence, Client asked staff, "Do we
need to pick up the balls?" prior to eloping. BC Edward Thomas and BC Marquitta
Williams ran back inside and out front door. Mr. Edward got in his vehicle, he saw clients
sitting on the fence line on the right side of the highway. Mr. Edward turned around to
approach the 3 boys and they ran across the highway down a trail to a creek. Hamburg City
Police were notified. Dea Hill, Dr. Vora, and Crittenden County DCFS on call Jessica
Mielke notified. Client was found and returned by police at 13:12 : DOB:
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Parental/Private Placement: (dad) On September 4 at 10:40am, while
clients were getting ready to return inside from outside activity, client proceeded
to jump the fence. Client asked staff Brianna and Edward "do we need to
pick up the balls" Client proceeded to pick up the balls and that's when client
jumped the fence. Behavior coach Edward notified other staff we had runners, that's when
shift leader Marquitta was sitting in class and heard the noise and started running behind
coach Edward. Coach Edward ran through the front door got into his vehicle behavior
coach saw client sitting on side of the highway so when behavior coach Edward turned
around to approach them they ran across the highway down a trail that led to a creek. Police
were notified and participated in the search. Dea Hill, Dr. Vora, and (dad) were
notified. Client was found and returned by police at 13:12 13:12: , Cont: When cts
were found and returned to DFC, BCTL was on Hall 1 and hear ct say he 's been wanting to
kill his stepmom for 3 years he said he imagine waiting on his mom to pull in the yard while
he has a pocket knife in his lap.
Interim Action Narrative:
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: On September 4 at 10:40AM while client were getting ready to return
inside from outside activity, client asked staff if he needed to pick up
the balls which were located inside facility fence. Clients , and
jumped the fence. Staff Mrs. Felicia was on break outside and called Fordyce Police
Department when she saw the clients jump the fence. Behavior Coach Edward notified
other staff that we had runners. That?s when Shift Leader Marquitta was sitting in class and
heard the noise and started running behind Coach Edward who ran through the front door
and got into his vehicle. Coach Edward saw clients sitting on the fence line to the right side
of the highway. Coach Edward turned around to approach them and they ran across
highway down a trail that led to a creek. Police participated in the search. Dean Hill, Dr.
Vora, and Hamburg Police Department notified. Clients found and returned by
Police and 1:12PM. All clients assessed by nursing and placed on precautions. Email sent to
facility 9/5/23 for incident details and nursing notes. Incident details entered in ELS and
nursing notes emailed to licensing 9/5/23. Staff on break outside facility notified Hamburg
Police Department when they saw clients jump the fence. Clients asked staff to retrieve balls
inside the fenced area before traversing fence. Staff/client ratio at the time of this incident
was 2:8. No supervision issues noted from report. 9/6/2023-Program Coordinator sent a

FOIA request for the police report to the Hamburg City PD. Police Report received 9/6/23
and uploaded to attached inspection. Case closed 9/7/23.