Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 026838
Date of Incident: 1/14/2025
Date Received: 1/15/2025
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for Private placement
client in our PRTF program and resides in House Incident Report date/time:
01/14/25 6:51pm Location of Incident: House Incident Description: Suicidal, Threat
to Safety Staff Involved: Kelton Johnson, Joseph Davis, Lauryn Gilmore, Montez Peterson,
Zharieah Foreman, Meredith Reddin, Dejuan Williams Events Leading: Client was upset
after getting news of not moving in treatment phase in her weekly staffing feedback. Client
was trying to strangle herself with her pajamas. Client was asked to remove her pajamas
from her neck, or staff will have to remove the pajamas from her neck to keep her safe.
6:51pm-Personal Restraint: Client had to be restrained in her room. Client had clothing tied
around her neck. Client did not want staff to take clothing wrapped around her neck. Staff
have to remove the clothing from her neck. 6:55pm-Personal Restraint: Client had to be
walked into the hallway because she was being unsafe. Client would not be compliant.
Client was refusing to stop trying to self-harm herself. Client had to be restrained until she
complied. 7:00pm-Personal Restraint End: Client finally complied with staff and stop
fighting staff. Client started doing breathing exercises. Client started to process with staff
about the situation 7:05pm-Personal Restraint: Client started to self-harming again. Client
started to scratch herself real hard. Client had to be restrained in the hallway until she
contracted to safety. Client started to bag her head on the wall. Staff had to keep her head
up to keep her from banging her head. 7:08pm-Personal Restraint End: Client finally shown
that she could contract to safety. Client agreed to come up to the FOH. She called her mom,
and told her that she was not practicing safe behaviors. Patient Debriefing was completed
on 01/14/25 at 7:10pm Injuries to staff or client: Pt denies pain/injury. Redness present to
anterior neck, no bruising at this time. Skin intact. Follow-up to injury: Nursing monitored
for changes. Nursing Assessment date/time: 01/14/25 7:30pm: This nurse responded to all-
call. Per staff, pt had attempted to wrap an article of clothing around neck in order to
strangle self. Upon arrival, pt is sitting on bed attempting to get hands around neck to
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

strangle self. Pt placed in PR and escorted from room d/t unsafe bx. Pt released from PR
and attempted to scratch self. Placed in PR d/t attempt to scratch self. Pt released from PR,
then began to attempt to strangle self again. Pt in PR for under thirty minutes. Offered
water, bathroom breaks. After calming, showing cooperative bx, and agreeing not to harm
self, pt released from PR. Upon nurses assessment, pt is alert and oriented to self/situation.
Pt states that she is upset that she 'is not on working' when she has been here for 'several
months'. Pt ref to contract to safety at this time, states 'I want to harm myself, by
scratching. I want to kill myself by strangling and I may try to, I don't know'. Pt's vitals are
as follows: BP 137/86, HR 111, RR 19, temp 97.9. Eyes PERRLA. Skin even, expected color
for ethnicity. Full ROM noted in all extremities. Gait steady. Pt denies pain/injury. Redness
present to anterior neck, no bruising at this time. Skin intact. Scars present to bilat arms.
Redness/irritation noted to existing scars. No new SH marks noted. No bruising at this
time. Skin intact. Pinpoint petechiae noted to upper R forearm. Petechiae present in two
horizontal lines with some spots following veins down arm, appear red/purple. Therapist on
call notified. Provider notified. Pt talked w/ on call therapist for several minutes. After
conversation, pt able to find goal and contract for safety. States that she would talk to staff
present or call for nurse if she beings to feel urge to SH or if she notices any SI. Pt placed on
eyeball/FOH/SS. No further findings. No further needs at this time. Guardian was notified
on 01/14/25 at 8:00pm and 8:30pm.
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was placed in restraints for safety. Resident was
assessed by the nurse. Resident was placed on eyeball/FOH/SS.
Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing reviewed provider reported incident for licensing concerns.
Facility provided documentation for this provider reported incident on 1/15/2025 via email.
Documenation uploaded on 1/16/2025.