Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 11/27/2023
Date Received by DCCECE:11/27/2023
Facility Name: Neurorestorative Timber Ridge
Facility Number: 102
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Client DOB , private placement, was sent for
an x-ray today due to reported thumb pain. X-ray showed irregularity with possibility of
small avulsion fracture. On Friday, November 24th, 2023, client began attacking staff by
punching and hitting them. Staff used their body as a barrier and blocked to maintain
safety. When trying to intervene and help client calm, he lost his balance and caught himself
with his hand on the ground and continued to attempt to attack staff. Staff worked with him
to try to calm, but he continued to be aggressive towards staff and then was placed in an
NCI approved therapeutic hold to maintain safety of himself and others. Client was
assessed by nursing and was treated and monitored accordingly. Client was followed by
nursing Saturday and Sunday. Monday morning, 11/27/23, nursing assessed and informed
the medical director of symptoms, and the medical director ordered the x-ray. Parent has
been notified. Client accused staff of bending his thumb during the incident and this was
called into the on Saturday, November 25th, 2023, and the
following was emailed to Timber Ridge from , "The was not accepted for
investigation and was documented only due to; Does not meet criteria set forth in
. " The and the
reviewer was Amber Armstrong. At the time of the incident, there were 11 clients in the
program and 4 on a therapeutic pass, and 5 staff present. During this incident, 2 other staff
responded for assistance to maintain safety. Nursing was present during the incident.
Interim Action Narrative:
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Client was sent for an x-ray of his thumb 11/27/23
which showed irregularity with possibility of small avulsion fracture. Client stated his thumb
was hurt due to staff bending his thumb back during an incident 11/24/23.
was called by facility 11/25/23 and was screened out. Phone call made 11/27/23 to
Timber Ridge Director Kenleigh Bennett. Hospital did not wrap, splint or cast injury.
Hospital recommended ice. There is no camera footage of this incident. Client accused
staff member of bending his thumb back. made this accusation to staff
11/24/23, which included staff Anna Mahurin. Incident report was reviewed by Kenleigh
Bennett the next morning. When asked, staff Mahurin stated she did not call in the
accusation to the because she witnessed the entire incident at which
no time staff bent client 's thumb back. At this time staff Bennett instructed staff
Mahurin to make the Report. Phone conversation between licensing
and staff Kenleigh Bennett held 11/27/23 confirms that the should
have been notified immediately after accusation was made. Staff Scott has a gash in her face
from defending attack from client . Witness statements and nurse's assessment asked to
be emailed to licensing. Visit scheduled for the next morning of 11/28/23. 11/28/23, nursing
notes and 6 witness statements reviewed from incident 11/24/23 involving client . No
documentation reviewed mention staff bending client 's thumb or indicate any
inappropriate hold. Facility visited 11/28/23. Client interviewed. When asked about
incident stated that " " bent my thumb and finger back "on purpose". When
asked how knew did this on purpose "because I punched her in the face".
indicated that this happened during the hold on the ground with staff and staff
. Staff interviewed. Staff Tylyn was involved in the ground supine hold with
was on one arm facing away from client and did not observe staff who
had ahold of the other arm. Tylyn stated that staff Anna M was present for the hold as the
observer. Staff Anna M interviewed. Staff Anna stated that she was present for the entirety of
the ground supine hold. Staff Anna stated that she observed staff holding client 's
wrist during hold. Staff Anna stated that at no time did she witness staff grab or grab
near client 's hand. Staff Anna stated that after the incident, she was present for and
aided in deescalating when disclosed that staff bent his thumb. Staff Anna M
stated that she did not report this to the because she did not have
reasonable cause to suspect that occurred. Upon receiving this report,
the next morning, Timber Ridge PRTF Director Kenleigh Bennett advised staff Anna M to
call the . T/A given for 110.9: Any owner, operator, employee, foster
parent, or volunteer in a child welfare agency shall immediately notify the Child Abuse
Hotline if they have reasonable cause to suspect that a child has been subjected to child
maltreatment. Staff interviewed who later intervened in the ground supine hold with
Staff had ahold of client s legs. Staff confirmed that staff Anna M was

present as an observer. Staff stated she never witnessed staff grab client's hand,
just wrists. Hotline was screened out . Case closed 11/30/23.