Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 3/15/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 3/16/2023
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Facility Type: Residential
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for DOB:
client in our PRTF program who resides in Mabee House Incident Report
date/time: 03/15/23 2:10pm Location of Incident: Mabee Incident Description: Self Injury
(Not Suicidal), Aggressive to Adults, Attempted Runaway, Threat to Safety, Medical
Emergency (Trip to ER/Urgent Care), Patient Injury Staff Involved: Jacqueline Wheeler,
Contrell Alexander, Christian Spratt, Erika Henthorne, Joseph Davis-nurse, Anthony Mask
Events Leading: The nurse came to assess Pt hand following an incident from earlier. After
verbal support and instructions to care for her hand, Pt began demanding juice, kicking the
door and hitting the wall. Pt alternated between the front and the kitchen door and was
unable to kick it open. Pt was yelling No as staff attempted to reason with her. Pt eventually
headed to the emergency exit door and had to be restrained. 2:10pm Personal Restraint: Pt
was placed in restraint at this time. Pt struggled with staff and was yelling let me go. Staff
continued to offer verbal support. Pt complained of pain on her hand. Pt responded well to
staff's verbal de-escalation and began to relax and stopped struggling. 2:15pm Personal
Restraint End: Pt was visibly calm. Nurse explained to Pt that we need to assure she was
safe in order to assess her hand. Pt allowed the nurse to assess her hand. Pt was released at
this time. Patient Debriefing date/time: 03/15/2023 3:15pm: Time was spent validating the
Pt feelings. Pt understood the possible dangers that could occur if she was allowed to leave
the premises without consent. Staff discussed what was causing her verbal and physical
aggression and ways she could cope with it in a positive manner. UM Debriefing date/time:
03/15/23 3:00pm Injuries to client: Right hand 3rd-5th digit knuckles noted to be bruised
and swollen. Limited ROM with mild/moderate pain. Follow-up to injury: Client sent to
Arkansas Children's Hospital Nursing Assessment date/time: 03/15/2023 2:20pm: Came to
Mabee house to assess right hand injury. Client having changes in mood and behavior.
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Client demanding to go out the front door. Client was encouraged to calm down. Client
feeding off peer limit peer. Client began kicking the front door and hitting the wall with her
right hand. Client then ran to restricted area and personal restraint was initiated.
Encouraged client to relax, refused and continued to struggle with staff. Client was able to
calm down and was released from restraint. Encouraged client to take good care of her
hands because she will have them for life. Right hand 3-5th digit knuckles noted to be
bruised and swollen. Limited ROM with mild/moderate pain, complains of numbness to
5th digit, capillary refill >3 seconds. Client not stable enough to go to urgent care with
single staff supervision. Client shared that she wanted to kill herself. Encouraged client to
make good choices, to give her future self a chance. Client voiced suicidal ideation once
again, and the call was made to transfer to acute. Will continue to monitor. Client left for
ACH ER, possible transfer to acute from there. Guardian was contacted by nurse on
03/15/23 at 2:54pm and 2:56pm: Guardian informed of need for emergency room prior to
acute admission for treatment/evaluation of right hand injury.
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was assessed by nursing and transferred to AR
Children's Hospital emergency room for further evaluation. Due to resident's voicing
suicidal ideation she was admitted to acute care after evaluation.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing Specialist will inquire about camera footage and placement
of resident. Licensing Specialist informed that resident was placed in acute care at
Methodist. 3/20/2023, Licensing Specialist reviewed camera footage.