Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 023406
Date of Incident: 6/22/2024
Date Received: 8/21/2024
Facility Name: Perimeter of the Ozarks
Facility Number: 237
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: We wanted to forward some concerns about an incident at Perimeter
Ozarks. received Serious Occurrence Report about a resident being arrested and
charged with second degree battery for hitting a staff member. We reviewed video of the
incident and the police report. After video review we realized the description of the events
was misleading and did not match the events described in the Serious Occurrence Report.
The situation could have been prevented if they had left the client in the seclusion room
instead of dragging her to the unit. The staff failed to de-escalate the situation and used
police as a behavior management tool. The facility is a Psychiatric Residential Facility
which should be able to handle a child with behavioral issues, we are seeing too many
facilities using police as behavior management, resulting in children being charged with
crimes. Most parents feeling their child needs a PRTF are doing so because the child is not
safe enough to be in the home and community, how horrible it is that they are being
charged in a facility that should be helping them. Another issue observed in the video was
the child getting a chemical restraint after she was calm for 10 Minutes. After requesting her
Diagnosis, it was also found that which only
makes the situation worse. In summary: 1. Before the assault on the nurse occurs, resident
is sitting calmly in the seclusion room. She does not become dysregulated until staff pick
her up and drag her out of the room and back to the unit. 2. In between the time that the
resident hit staff and was separated from her peers around 9:36 AM until the nurses
entered at 9:52 to give a shot, she sat still and didn?t move. 3. The serious occurrence
form says that after police left, assaulted staff again. We did not see any kind of Second
?assault? when we watched the video. We did zoom call with the risk manager and she
stated that the second ?assault? was not cooperating when staff tried to remove her from
the seclusion room back to the unit, She was sitting calmly in the seclusion room.
Considering the details we have listed above; we do not feel this incident should?ve resulted
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

in a second call to the police and the arrest of We have attached the video for your
review.
Interim Action Narrative:
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: 8/21/2024- Licensing reviewed the camera footage
Licensing met with OLTC and AFMC to discuss coordinating entry to the facility.
8/26/2024- Licensing and OLTC visited the facility. A review of the facility restraint policy,
video footage, restraint log, physician restraint orders, and restraint justification packets
occurred. The facility could not produce the documents noted on the 521 that were missing
from the resident's file.