Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 2/27/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 2/27/2023
Facility Name: Perimeter of the Ozarks
Facility Number: 237
Facility Type: Residential
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Name: , DOB: Notified: Mylea White
(DHS, AR) On 02/27/2023 at approximately 0841, resident pulled an outlet out of the wall to
obtain contraband to self-harm with. Staff were able to keep resident from tampering with
the outlet until it could be repaired. She then continued to try to obtain contraband to self-
harm from other areas around the unit. She sat in a corner to be out of sight so she could
pick at her scabs that are existing from previous self-harm. RN and staff had to physically
remove contraband from her hand that she was attempting to self-harm with. Staff were able
to physically block resident for an extended period of time while therapy processed with
. After some time, due to continued attempts to self-harm, resident was placed in a
physical restraint during which circulation was checked periodically and therapist
communicated with resident to deescalate her. After the restraint was released, RN assessed
there were no abnormalities found on her. She then took her morning meds, a PRN
and processed with therapy. In relation to this, she will be on self-harm precautions with
constant line of sight.
Interim Action Narrative:
Maltreatment Narrative:
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Licensing Narrative:Licensing specialist reviewed camera footage for this incident today.
The incident occurred in the corner of the day room in a camera blind spot. However,
licensing specialist could observe that staff was with her in the corner for most of the hour of
footage viewed. When staff left her to take care of other tasks on the unit, they always circled
back around to check on her within 5 minutes. Based on footage, there are no supervision
concerns related to this incident. Licensing specialist viewed corner area of orange unit
during visit. There were no loose or poorly fitted outlets observed in the area at time of visit.
No additional licensing follow up required at this time.