and medication to help with bowel movements. Guardian said she spoke with the CEO
once and he was nice but did mention that they normally don't take in individuals that
wears pull ups, who aren't potty trained ,and that the member is old enough to go to the
restroom on his own. Guardian said the CEO was really nice aside from that statement.
Guardian said there are no changes in member's medications and that she was under the
impression that Millcreek would be helping the member, but instead his behaviors have
worsened. Member is refusing to attend school and complete assignments at the facility per
guardian. Guardian said the facility should to notify her before making decisions because
the member is her son. A lot of the member's clothes, underwear, and socks has be stolen
per guardian. Guardian reports spending a lot of money on new items for the member.
Guardian also stated the member has had two home visits and that the member refuses to
bathe. Guardian reported she will likely remove member from Millcreek?s program, pending
other availability from other providers. Licensing Specialist Clayton DeBoer phoned
on 4/13/23. stated she can take phone calls regarding
this issue between 3PM-4PM and anytime after 4:30PM. Ms. Sawrie stated that during visits
on Saturdays with her son Tayton Sawrie, she and her boyfriend have to clean feces off of
him. To clarify, stated it was ?s feces she had to clean off of him.
stated that is not potty trained ?he knows how to use the bathroom he just
doesn?t?. She stated that she spoke with Chris Butler about a month ago and that is the only
staff at Millcreek who has spoken with her over the phone about these concerns. She stated
that Chris Butler said if Millcreek had known about the bathroom issue they would not have
accepted him ( . She stated that has had two home visits while at Millcreek.
She stated that eats like a ?barbarian? and refuses to bathe. She stated that she was
successful in bathing but she had to force him. She stated that bathing has always
been an issue with stated that during home visits says he has
watched ?R rated movies? and ?talks about cutting people up?. She stated that talks
about ?bed bugs? and that she has seen bites on him. stated that Tayton school
grades are ?slipping? and that he is on a 1st to 2nd grade level. She stated that when Tayton
was attending Lake Hamilton School, he made straight A?s. stated that
Millcreek ?gave him antibiotics and didn?t even tell me?. stated that she has had
to buy clothes for while at Millcreek because his clothes go missing, specifically
socks and a coat. stated that ?s therapist is and his case
manager is . She stated she has called Millcreek several times to speak with
these individuals to no avail. stated that when she calls Millcreek to speak with
, Millcreek staff tell her either doesn?t want to talk on the phone or is not
available. Ms. Tayton stated that Tayton resides at Rock Hill at Millcreek. stated
that Tayton still resides at Millcreek ?as of right now? and that she has had Tayton on a
waiting list for a UAMS program for 2 years. ?s boyfriend briefly spoke on the
phone adding ?we had to clean feces out of his shoes?. Facility visited 4/17/23 in response
to complaint regarding client . interviewed. was fully clothed with shoes, socks.
shorts and a Sonic the Hedgehog shirt. appeared clean and had no noticeable odor. TS
was briefly escorted from school to Rock Hill. was asked to show what clothes other than
what he was wearing he had. dumped a plastic bin which contained an additional pair of
shoes and several socks, underwear, and when asked stated "10" shirts. was asked if

he was missing any clothes "last time I went on home pass half went missing". When asked
stated that he does get bug bites. When asked if the bites have been worse or better
"kind of better". pointed to what appeared to be a few bites on his knee. also had a
bruise on his knee that he stated he didn't know where it came from. When asked, TS stated
that he lives at home with his mom, dad, brother sister and two dogs. stated that he
misses being at home and plays with his brother and sister for fun. 's MAR reviewed for
March and April. April 2nd the AM meds are not initialed. Nursing confirmed that
medications were given but not initialed. DON Amanda Williams consulted regarding
complaint of receiving antibiotics without parent's consent. Ms. Williams stated that an
attempt was made to contact parent/guardian but no answer and no way to leave voice
mail. Ms. Williams stated protocol for administering an antibiotic for an infection is to begin
giving per Dr.'s orders as long as an attempt has been made to notify guarding. Chris Butler
states this is not in a written policy but following protocol set in place by unit physician.
s attendance record reviewed to be perfect attendance. grade's reviewed which are
one A, 5 B's and one C. Rid-a-Pest records reviewed for pest extermination. Rid-a-Pest
record for 11/14/22 and 1/18/23 did note bedbugs for Rock Hill and that bedbug treatment
was performed. Chris Butler added that on 3/14/23 Rid-a-Pest had completed a Rock Hill
wide bedbug treatment. Invoice could not be located today but will send to licensing in the
future. Millcreek Policy for movies is that no R rated movies be shown to client and that
age-appropriate guidelines be followed. Facility cited 908.8 for medication not being
initialed for on 4/2/23. Follow up phone call was made to 4/17/23.
was explained that her concerns had been addressed today by Licensing and to feel
free to call if needed. Ms. Sawrie was explained that follow up visits regarding any
additional concerns can be addressed. stated that Millcreek Therapist Samara
White had called her boyfriend Eric and that Eric was able to speak with
stated that Ms. White stated would call this evening, 4/17/23, for a more extensive
phone call. Received notification 6/6/23 that maltreatment complaint was unfounded.