Inspection of Care Summary
Facility Tour:
Upon arrival to facility, AFMC staff noted two men sitting on sidewalk of facility smoking cigarettes within
25 feet of the main entrance. AFMC staff also noted a large pile of mail sitting unattended on sidewalk at
the front door. Mail labels included client’s names. AFMC staff was promptly greeted at the main entrance
by a Woodridge of the Ozarks staff member. AFMC was immediately taken to an office on the
administrative hallway where they were met by the Director of Clinical Services. AFMC staff was given
the completed and signed consent form listing approval for access to the AFMC portal.
This IOC visit was upon request of DPSQA to follow up on a recent IOC inspection conducted on
October 6, 2022, and December 5, 2022. A tour of the facility was completed with the Director of Clinical
Services. Group activities and educational classes were in session. All staff members were observed
interacting calmly and therapeutically with clients throughout the facility. Staff were able to answer
questions regarding the facility.
The areas that were toured included three client units, the seclusion room area, the school unit,
gymnasium, outside grounds, and cafeteria. The following is a list of environmental observations noted
during the facility tour.
• The three client units toured included Blue Unit, Orange Unit, and Green Unit.
o Units appeared to be much cleaner than the past IOC visits. All client’s beds were made,
and the rooms did not have excessive trash and clutter which has been a problem noted
on previous inspections.
o Multiple walls and doors that previous had an excessive amount of profanity carved into
the paint have been repainted recently.
o The unit floors have been recently waxed and stripped and looked very clean.
o As noted on previous inspections, each unit had missing floor tiles in the main hallways.
o As noted on previous inspections, the client toilets in each room have a wooden covering
with openings around the bottom of the toilet and the flush handle to provide anti-ligature
safety for the clients. Clients have stuck trash, personal items such as socks and
underwear, used feminine products in these openings in every client bathroom. These
openings are difficult to clean which provides an area to harbor germs, biohazard waste,
as well as contraband.
o The client’s shower floors had recently been concreted or had plastic shower floor inserts
placed to prevent injury or self-harm from sharp edges from the broken shower tiles or
peeling epoxy. This was implemented due to a recent DHS Division of Child Care and
Early Childhood Education visit on January 24, 2023.
• As noted on previous inspections, the rubber flooring outside of the seclusion room was
overlapping causing a trip hazard.
• The client restroom outside of the seclusion room had excessive spills dried on the floor, the trash
was overflowing, and there was a foul odor noted.
• Two classrooms were toured. There were twelve clients with three staff members and one teacher
noted per class. Staff were calmly interacting with clients and providing a therapeutic
environment that was conducive for learning and treatment therapies.
• Per the clinical director the outdoor area is not being utilized at the time due to the metal roof
being replaced, which is causing the presence of sharp pieces of metal, screws, and other
hazardous objects on the ground. Due to clients picking up scattered pieces of debris from the
roof replacement and using it as contraband, staff decided to close the outside area until project is
completed. Maintenance staff are going out frequently with a magnet to help keep area as clean as
possible for safety of clients and staff.
Woodridge of the Ozarks—Springdale, Arkansas—IOC Report 2 | P ag e

• There were no issues noted in the gymnasium. It was noted that this area is shared with an
adolescent outpatient day treatment provider that is housed next door and this facility was
currently utilizing gymnasium as AFMC staff toured. There are two side doors in the gymnasium
that open to the above mentioned outside area that is closed due to the metal roof being replaced.
These gymnasium outside access doors must remain unlocked due to fire safety code, so currently
the residential patients of Woodridge of the Ozarks have not accessed the gymnasium area in
several weeks. The CEO did state later during the inspection that she has implemented an
exercise plan that is being done on each unit at this time.
• There were no concerns noted in the cafeteria.
AFMC staff noted that while working in the office space provided on the administration hallway
throughout the day, that the offices and hallways had a lot of staff traffic, and that privacy was lacking.
Staff had multiple personal and inappropriate conversations that could be heard. The CEO conducted an
interview with a Director of Nursing candidate that was also not private to the surrounding offices in that
area.
Facility Review-Policies and Procedures:
Upon review of the site’s policies and procedures, the following deficiencies were noted:
Rule Deficiency Statement Reviewer Notes
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: The facility has not complied with The provider had a reportable
221.801; 42 CFR Medicaid, state, and federal incident that occurred after-hours on
482.130, 483.376 reporting requirements of death, January 31, 2023, however it was not
serious injury, or attempted suicide. reported until February 3, 2023. The
provider also had a documented 521
visit from the Division of Child Care
and Early Childhood Education.
Personnel Records- Licenses, Certifications, Training:
There were fourteen personnel records requested, two (25%) professional staff and twelve (27%)
paraprofessional staff. During the review of the personnel records, no deficiencies were noted.
Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality of Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list
was requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was
completed. There was no active FFS Medicaid clients at the time of the inspection.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
No active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, there were no client
interviews were conducted.
Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
No active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, there were no clinical
records reviewed.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
Staff and residents were in the classroom setting and on the units. Staff were calmly interacting with
clients and providing a therapeutic environment that was conducive for learning and treatment therapies.
Medication Pass:
No FFS Medicaid clients received medications during medication pass. Due to the observation of non-
Medicaid clients not being complaint with the HIPAA minimal necessary rule, no medication pass was
observed. AFMC RN visited with a Woodridge of the Ozarks medication nurse who was able to show
Woodridge of the Ozarks—Springdale, Arkansas—IOC Report 3 | P ag e

AFMC RN the facility policies and procedures regarding medication administration, narcotic
count/reconciliation/handling, and medication discrepancies. Tour of medication room completed with the
medication nurse and no discrepancies with medication storage, cleanliness of medication room, and
knowledge of medication dispensing found.
AFMC staff did note that the hinge on narcotic box was found to be bent causing the narcotic box to not
close properly. Narcotic box was still able to be locked but there was a small gap between the lid and side.
This was reported to the Assistant Director of Nursing who stated they were already aware of the issue
with the narcotic box and had she had been informed by someone that if the box could be locked, and the
medication room door was locked the box was fine as this would be considered double locked.
Corrective Action Plan:
The CAP must be completed within 30 calendar days of the date of the email notice of the IOC report
available for review. The IOC Report and Request for Corrective Action can be accessed through the link
to AccessPoint, provided via email.
*For more details on the individual related deficiencies, please log into the portal.
Respectfully,
AFMC Inspection Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
Woodridge of the Ozarks—Springdale, Arkansas—IOC Report 4 | P ag e