Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 9/21/2023
Date Received by DCCECE:9/22/2023
Facility Name: Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF
Facility Number: 233
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: , (AR, parent custody, DOB: ) was sent to
Dr. Patrick Moseley, DDS for an emergency dental appointment. was referred for
assessment after a physical confrontation with a peer, resulting in one tooth being knocked
out. During the dental visit, Dr. Moseley determined that a second tooth was damaged and
needed to be removed. He completed the removal during the visit. After the visit, was
released to return to the facility. Millcreek is developing a follow up plan to address the
missing teeth.
Interim Action Narrative:
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing received facility report 9/22/23 that on 9/21/23 client
was sent to Dr. Patrick Moseley, DDS for an emergency dental
appointment. was referred for assessment after a physical confrontation with a peer,
resulting in one tooth being knocked out. During the dental visit, Dr. Moseley determined
that a second tooth was damaged and needed to be removed. He completed the removal
during the visit. After the visit, was released to return to the facility. Millcreek is
developing a follow up plan to address the missing teeth. Facility visited 9/26/23 in
response to incident in which client was assaulted by a peer. During the incident, one of
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

's teeth were knocked out. Subsequent visit to the dentist resulted in the removal of one
more tooth. interviewed. stated that he and another peer, had an argument/fight
during an outdoor activity. stated that staff were sitting on a bench and instructed
and to stop fighting and they did. stated that staff were approximately "5 feet" from
him when another client, , "hit me from behind", resulting in 's tooth being knocked
out. stated that staff immediately prevented him and from continuing to fight. Staff
Sheila Smith, who was present for this incident, interviewed today. Staff Smith stated she
and other staff were deescalating an argument with and other peers, when snuck up
and punched . Staff Smith stated they immediately prevented and from
continuing to fight and was taken to the nurse.