Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 023154
Date of Incident: 6/12/2023
Date Received: 8/12/2024
Facility Name: Piney Ridge Treatment Center
Facility Number: 203
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: did not recieve appropriate and ordered medical care on
numerous occasions such as taking his bloodpressure as directed by his nephrologist at Ar
Childrens hospital , didn?t provide his special diet, when he was discharged from facility I
could have been anyone picking him up as they never asked for ID or had me sign anything
, they just let him go. This is supposed to be a lock down facility but he escaped numerous
times by climbing on a picnic table and scaling the fence.MORE
Interim Action Narrative:
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: 8/16/2024 - The complaint was reviewed by the Licensing Specialist.
Licensing specialist attempted phone call to reporter to obtain additional information but
was not answered. 8/19/2024 -
. Licensing specialist contacted the report to obtain additional information
regarding the report. The reporter states she was concerned with how the facility discharged
the resident. The reporter states the facility staff did not check I.D. upon arrival nor confirm
who she was before letting the resident go with her. The reporter states the facility did not
accommodate the resident's special diet of low salt. The reporter stated the resident was
able to elope twice, once he was picked up by police and managed to get in the trunk of the
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

police car and obtain ammunition. The reporter states the resident once discharged from
the facility was being transported to Fostering Change to start reintegration and he told the
reporter and Fostering Change staff the facility transporter allowed him to use his vape and
play games on his phone and he saw he had pornography on his phone and that he was a
pedophile. Licensing specialist requested the reporter obtain the specific dates for the
elopement to ensure the facility reported the incidents. Licensing specialist staffed the
phone call information obtained from the reporter with Program Coordinator C. Vardell.
was checked to review information regarding the resident seeing porn on the Piney
Staff transporter phone and ensure staff were made aware of the allegation. Ronissa Adams
was made aware of allegations involving the staff giving the resident his vape and seeing
pornography on his phone. A visit will be conducted to address the concerns discussed with
the reporter. 8/20/2024 - Licensing specialist received a response from the facility: "If I
recall correctly, this was never documented and given to Risk. The resident never completed
a grievance and/or documented anything pertaining to a vape or anything else. It was
shared by his therapist supposedly to another therapist that he stated something pertaining
to a vape and\or phone access. This was brought up verbally days after the fact, but was still
not documented by the person who received it which questioned the validity of reported
topic. Information was later brought up by the that the then discharged resident
reported information to her. Then apparently accepted, and when
the facility could confirm who the staff was in question by the , the staff
was suspended, , and it was closed. 11/15/2024 - Findings 521 sent to
facility. 11/22/2024 - Followed up with facility for signed findings 521 inspection report.