Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 12/18/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 12/19/2023
Facility Name: Millcreek of Arkansas PRTF
Facility Number: 233
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: During recreation time,
became upset due to the behavior of other patients, which caused the group to
return inside. He then left the living unit through the rear door and jumped over the fence,
entering a wooded area. As a result, the elopement protocol was initiated, and search efforts
began. The Fordyce Police Department was also notified of his elopement and aided in the
search. After about an hour, he was found on facility grounds. However, he became
combative with our facility supervisor and police officers, even attempting to grab the
officer's taser. Consequently, the officers had to handcuff him and take him into custody.
It's worth noting that even during the arrest, he continued to resist and even threatened the
life of the officers. After spending 30 minutes with the officers, he was returned to the
facility. He was then placed on a new living unit with increased staff supervision.
Concerning these events, Fordyce Police Department is working alongside the juvenile
prosecutor on the possibility of criminal charges being filed against No
determination has been made at this time. The on-site nursing staff examined him and
observed various scratches and abrasions on his body. He mentioned experiencing pain in
his nose. Additionally, there was swelling in the affected area. He informed the nurse that he
was struck in the face by the officers.
Due
to his elopement risk, he was not immediately transported for x-ray. He will be evaluated
on-site by his PCP on 12.19.23. Further medical care will be provided pending the results of
this assessment.
Interim Action Narrative: Client was placed on a new living unit with increased staff
supervision.
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Licensing Narrative: 12/19/23-Received provider reported incident that client
became upset and eloped his living unit, jumped a fence and entered a wooded
area. Elopment protocol was initiated, and search efforts began. Fordyce Police Department
was called. Client was located on facility grounds and became combative with police and
staff. Client alleged to have been injured by police during altercation.
. Report does not indicate a staff supervision issue. Elopement
protocol was followed. Complaint was alleged against Fordyce Police Department.
12/19/23-Phone call made to Chris Butler of Millcreek around 2:30PM. Client had a
Dr.'s appt. at 1:00PM. Results are not available yet. Results will be emailed to licensing
upon receipt. remains at facility. was out of supervision of staff for a period of time
before being apprehended on facility grounds. Staff were immediately aware of
elopement and followed protocol.