R
Notice of Incident
Case Number: 031102
Date of Incident: 4/1/2025
Date Received: 7/10/2025
Facility Name: Delta Family Health and Fitness for Children
Report Description: About a month after March 6, 2025, when she was admitted into Delta RTC.
A male staff member came into her room by himself and threw her onto the floor to restrain her.
She burst her lip and blood was everywhere. She still has the scar where the AO?s fingernails went
into her skin. She was not being aggressive to cause this. She said the AO said, ?it was about to be a
code yellow.? It was asked in front of her guardian and therapist if an incident report was completed
and no one responded. The case manager asked her guardian if an incident report was done. Her
guardian said that when she heard about the restraints, she went down to Delta to talk to them
about it. She had not been previously made aware of the details until shared them on
7/8/2025. She did ask why she had not given these details to her. said it was
because at Delta, was in the room and she knew would twist
her story and say she was lying and exaggerating. said no report had been called in the
about this and says the staff at Delta act fake when DHS is present. She also says she has
been eaten by ants being in her bed that it was a horrific amount of ants on her sheets. However,
when a nurse and staff went in to see they only saw one or two ants and said she was exaggerating.
She was given a -250 for exaggerating. On 07/07/2025 had an Orthodontist appointment
. When she returned to Delta she was told she
could not have bands that she may put them around her neck. She was also told the Colgate
toothpaste she received at the appointment could not get the job done, that she could not have it.
said that at DHS had given her some squishy pens and a squishy animal. Delta
asked where they came from she told them, and the staff said she was lying. says she has
been at Delta for a while and is ready to go, everyone else is being discharged and she has been there
the longest. She does feels she has made progress and is ready to go back to .
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov