Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 024031
Date of Incident: 9/16/2024
Date Received: 9/17/2024
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for DOB:
client in our PRTF program and resides in Chestnut House Incident Report date/time:
09/16/24 12:29pm Location of Incident: Siebert School Incident Description: Aggressive to
Peers, Aggressive to Adults, Threat to Safety, Property Destruction Staff Involved: Allison
DeMay, Robert Page, Rodney Ellis, Ben Malone, Caitlin Henthorne, Clytrell Daniel, Kara
Brooks, Valerie Alvarez, Taylor Tull, Charles Hoof, Samantha Henry, Melissa Price Events
Leading: While in class pt was struggling with a peer instigating him. Neither pt nor peer
would leave the class when asked to take a break. Pt's peer stood up and continued talking
to pt. Pt then stood up and approached peer, shoving staff in effort's to get to peer. Personal
restraint began at this time. 12:29pm-Personal Restraint: Patient charged at a peer, shoving
a teacher in his class. A personal restraint was initiated. Patient fought the restraint and his
feet tangled with staff's feet, causing all of them to fall to the floor. Patient attempted to bite
staff members while in the restraint. Patient cried and screamed. Patient was offered PRN
several times but declined. Staff attempted to provide verbal support to pt. 12:44pm-Personal
Restraint: Client started to calm down. Client stopped fighting staff. Nurse offered a
chemical by mouth. Client accepted. Nurse retrieved the chemical and administered. Staff
encouraged client to take a deep breath. He was given a tissue. 12:45pm-Chemical
Restraint: Client took chemical restraint by mouth. 12:46pm-Personal Restraint End: Client
was given water. Client contracted for safety. Personal restraint ended and client eloped
from the school. Client walked back to the house with staff and no further interventions.
Patient Debriefing date/time: 09/16/24 1:00pm: Client was asked if he was injured and he
initially said no, but then complained of pain in leg. Client also complained about the fall
that occurred in the restraint, but acknowledged that staff tripped over feet. Client expressed
concerns about potentially being placed on run risk, however client was only placed on
freeze PA. Client was able to accept information and discussed restoring with peer and
class. Verbalized that he did not have any other complaints or needs. He did not want any
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

fist bumps, but accepted a pat on the back from staff and verbalized feelings of sadness and
was tearful. Staff offered verbal support and explained that no one is angry with him and
they see him trying his best. Nursing Assessment date/time: 09/16/24 12:51pm: This nurse
attempted to process with following release of the restraint. He was tearful and crying
and made his way to the door of the classroom where he exited the classroom and eloped
from school. He jumped over the creek and stood there sobbing and crying while waiting on
team members. He voiced just needing to get out of the building. He walked back to
chestnut house amongst team members and endorsed being sad. Upon entering Chestnut
house, he initially denied any injuries. This nurse asked if he could remove his hoodie to
observe his arms. Erythema noted near/around posterior antecubital area. He also has a
healing scabbing sore one his (R) elbow that he reports his from his last restraint. He then
admits and c/o (R) leg pain below his calf area, rating pain 5/10. He complained about the
fall that occurred in the restraint, but acknowledged that staff tripped over feet. No physical
markings, erythema, bruising, abrasions, lacerations, or abnormalities noted. Gait is steady.
Active ROM to all extremities. Can bear weight without difficulty. PRN ibuprofen 400mg
administered. No further physical markings, erythema, bruising, abrasions, deformities,
protrusions, lacerations, or abnormalities noted. Of note: mild bruising and edema noted to
(R) hand, 5th carpal from patient punching the wall of some time recent. Capillary refill
brisk, less than 3 seconds, and WNL. AAOx4. Fairly clear and coherent speech. Sometimes
difficult to understand when he was crying and upset. No signs of respiratory distress. No
retractions, accessory muscle use, or nasal flaring. He agreed to a cold pack. he was
observed sitting on his bed, tearful, and appeared disappointed in self. He was looking
down and tearful. Denies any numbness, tingling, or weakness in extremities. This nurse
attempted to obtain vitals. remained upset, tearful, and tense. Discussed his vitals will
be obtained later when he feels better. 1315: MH, RN obtained vitals signs. BP: 126/74, HR
93. Temp. 97.2. SpO2 saturation 98%. Injuries to Staff or client: Pt stated he had no injuries
but did mention pain in his leg (possibly from staff and pt tripping, falling to the ground).
Staff were kicked and also suffered carpet burn. Follow-up to injuries: Pt was seen by the
nurse. Staff will self-care. Additional Comments: Concerns were made about the initiation of
the restraint, feeling as if the approach may have been too aggressive, furthering pt's
escalation. Video review shows that one team member may have been attempting to use
"team control" CPI hold but it was not communicated, making the initial restraint
ineffective. This will be further discussed/trained with team member. Guardian was notified
on 09/16/24 at 4:33pm, 4:34pm, 4:35pm was transported to acute at Rivendell on
09/16/24 at 6:50pm.
Interim Action Narrative: Staff used verbal de-escalation and presonal restraint. Resident
was assessed by the nurse and transported to acute care.
Maltreatment Narrative:

Licensing Narrative: Licensing reviewed provider reported incident for licensing concerns.
Program Coordinator will requsest nursing note and inquire about camera footage.
9/18/2024, Program Coordinator reviewed camera footage. Staff were not observed
preventing the resident from breathing. Resident was observed yelling and struggling to get
out of the resident. The resident was also observe displaying physical aggression towards
staff.