Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 3/29/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 3/29/2023
Facility Name: United Methodist Children's Home Little Rock Campus
Facility Number: 115
Incident Type: Dual
Report Description: On 3/29/2023, at 701 a.m., , DHS
placement client, walked on the hallway where (staff) were sitting
on the hallway monitoring other clients. walked over to one side of chair
looking for her walkie talkie, then he went to the other side of and plucked her in
the head. stands up, stating to "boy leave me alone". reaches up
to pluck again and she reacted quickly by yelling stop and hitting in the
face with the clipboard. then continue to walk toward she extended her
arm to keep him away from her by using a little push. reported that she accidently
hit with the clipboard while trying to prevent him from plucking her. A
report was completed and the report was only documented and awaiting review from a
supervisor to determine if the report will be accepted or not. The referral number is
Corrective action plan: was suspended immediately due to
pending investigation.
Interim Action Narrative: was suspended immediately due to
pending investigation.
Maltreatment Narrative: We accepted a report involving a foster child ? The listed
?caregiver? is but quite possibly the reporter meant
Supv. Av is . He is currently in
DHS custody, and his PRFC is Out of home offender
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

is who is an employee of Methodist Family Children?s Home in
Little Rock, Ar. is currently residing at the facility and has been since January 6,
2023. Reportedly, was sitting in the hallway when came out of his room
looking for her walkie-talkie. He then asked her where it was and proceeded to ?pluck? her
in the head with his finger. It was disclosed that she told him to stop, and he attempted to
?pluck? her on the shoulder. However, reacted and swatted at him hitting him in the
face with her clipboard. It was not believed that ?s actions were intentional and
suggested that it seemed like she forgot the clipboard was in her hand. ?s nose did
bleed after being hit in the face, but he did not require outside care.
Licensing Narrative: Licensing received report from facility 3/29/23: On 3/29/2023, at 701
a.m., client walked on the hallway where (staff)
were sitting on the hallway monitoring other clients. walked over to one side of
chair looking for her walkie talkie, then he went to the other side of and plucked her
in the head. stands up, stating to "boy leave me alone". reaches up to
pluck again and she reacted quickly by yelling stop and hitting in the face with
the clipboard. then continue to walk toward she extended her arm to keep him
away from her by using a little push. reported that she accidently hit with the
clipboard while trying to prevent him from plucking her. A report was completed
and the report was only documented and awaiting review from a supervisor to determine if
the report will be accepted or not. The referral number is Corrective action
plan: was suspended immediately due to pending investigation.
3/30/23 email sent to inquire if report was accepted. The
report was accepted. Facility visited 3/30/23 and video of the incident reviewed.
Staff is sitting on the boy's hall, staff/client ratio in camera view 1:1.
6 clients reported to be on the hall at the time of the incident making staff/client ratio 1:6.
Client enters the hall and flicks staff in the head as she is sitting
down. Client attempts to flick staff in the head area again. Staff stands up and
tells client to leave her alone. Staff raises her left arm as to block from flicking
her. Staff had a clipboard in her hand when doing this. The clipboard struck client
in the face. Facility cited 109.1g. As to document sub-regulation: Engaging in behavior
that could be viewed as sexual, dangerous, exploitative, or physically harmful to children.
Staff member will be retrained in staff/client interaction in a way that is not physically
harmful to children. Received notification 6/6/23 that maltreatment complaint was
unfounded.