Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 10/3/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 10/4/2023
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for DOB: Private placement
client in our PRTF program and resides in Sturgis House. Incident Report date/time:
10/03/2023 9:02am Location of Incident: Siebert School Incident Description: Aggressive to
Peers, Runaway, Threat to Safety Staff Involved: Tyteonia Morgan, Robert Page, Valerie
Alvarez Events Leading: Peer (1) gave client a threatening quote on whiteboard saying "If
you don't stop you will not enjoy the consequences". Staff encouraged client to allow them
to de-escalate the situation. Client seemed accepting to the information. While staff was
helping de-escalate another peer (2), the client went behind staff's back and immediately
started fighting peer (1). 9:02am Personal Restraint: Client and peer were on the floor
fighting. Additional staff were called due to the increased aggressiveness. Staff had to
remove pt's arms from peer's neck. After staff was standing between client and peer, he
quickly calmed down and walked out of the class with staff. 9:03am Personal Restraint End:
Client walked with staff and was not showing any signs of being unsafe. Client was calm
and expressive with staff. 9:18am Other/None: Client was in the D-zone talking with staff.
Staff went in to find out their version of what happened. Pt stated that his peer had written
on the white board a threat about messing with him. This made the Pt mad and asked the
peer what was he going to do about it. Pt said something like you'll find out and PT then
charged at peer , fighting him. 9:33am Other/None: Staff began talking about PT going to
Chestnut for the afternoon since it would not be safe to have the 2 clients together right
now. Pt refused and said we would have to restrain him to get him up there. Another Team
Member went to get help and Pt ran out of the D-Zone and out the side door and eloped.
9:35am Other/None: Pt eloped from the Dzone and exited the school from the back door.
Pt ran across campus and eventually exited campus, running through the woods. Staff
pursued pt and pt continued to run through the woods and then down the road. Staff lost
sight of pt and run protocol was initiated. The Pulaski County Sheriff's Office was notified.
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Team members continued to look in the woods and surrounding area for the pt and at
approximately 10:20 am, the pt arrived back to campus via the police. Patient Debriefing
date/time: 10/03/23 10:30am: Client was accepting of the information that he would be
placed on "freeze" for aggression. Staff and client discussed more effective and safe ways to
deal with similar issues in the future. After the client was returned by the Pulaski County
Sheriff's office (report #P23-011913), the client stated that he did not want to go back to the
house so he ran. He stated that he knew he shouldn't run. He was accepting of being placed
on House Restriction. Nursing Assessment date/time: 10-03-23 9:07am: was
observed standing in the hallway, calm and cooperative. AAOx3. Clear coherent speech. He
agreed to walk with this nurse to office for further evaluation. Erythema noted to posterior
neck and (L) ear. He endorsed some soreness of bottom tooth, #24 as he reported hitting
his head on the wall while striking his peer. He reports 6/10 pain and requested orajel.
Orajel administered. This tooth appears pushed back and not aligned with others. Client
reports this is WNL for him except the sensitivity. No further signs of physical markings,
erythema, bruising, abrasions, lacerations, deformities, or protrusions. No current signs of
periorbital edema. Nares Patent without signs of deviated septum. Active and passive ROM
to all extremities. Gait is steady. VS: 140, 67, HR 94. No signs of acute distress. RR 18
breaths/minute, unlabored. No retractions, accessory muscle use, or nasal flaring.
PERRLA. Grip strength bil equal +2. PP bil equal +2. Denies any feelings of weakness,
numbness, or tingling. Interacts and responds appropriately. Posture appears fairly relaxed
although facial expression appears tense. Client appears indifferent and voiced wanting to
return back to class. Guardian was notified by nurse on 10/03/23 at 10:30am Note: Client
was returned to campus by Pulaski County Sheriff's Deputies at 10:20 am.
Interim Action Narrative: Run protocol was initiated and the PCSO was called. Upon his
return, resident was assessed by nursing and placed on house restriction.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing Specialist was informed of the provider reported incident
during a visit. 10/4/2023, Licensing Specialist reviewed provider reported incident for
licensing concerns.