Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Client in the dayroom, she asked to take a self
time-out after earning correctives for throwing a milk to another client. She went into the
hallway, instead of going to the designated area staff assigned and sat in front of the
entrance door. The housekeeping staff was inside of the exam room cleaning, housekeeping
open the exam room door to exit the room. One housekeeper was mopping the floor and the
other housekeeper stepped in the hallway with the cart waiting for the other worker to finish
mopping. stands up, and walked over to the cart grabbing a bottle with cleaning
chemicals off the cart. The housekeeper was trying to prevent from grabbing items
off the cart, but was able to grab a bottle. Mr. Casey (staff) was present in the
hallway at the time of the incident and tried to retrieve the bottle but was unable to get the
bottle out of hand. unscrewed the lid off the bottle and drank some of the
liquid. Ms. Delores (staff) was walking in the hallway when the incident was occurring and
retrieved the bottle out of 's hand. Nurse Stephanie was notified to come assess the
client. was transported to Arkansas Children's Hospital by MEMs around 8:15 a.m.
returned from the hospital around 10:35 a.m., did not sustain any injuries
from ingesting the chemical. Client was placed on line of sight 24/7, finger foods, no sharps
and no sporks. Facility visited 5/26/23 and video reviewed of incident 5/24/23 in which
client swallowed unknown substance from a maintenance/cleaning cart. Clients
viewed in day area eating, staff/client ratio: 5:18. Client is seen being directed to the
hallway for a time out from an incident earlier in the day. sits by a door, calm and not
saying anything. Maintenance/Cleaning is seen entering the hall is sitting on.
jumps up and grabs a cleaning bottle off the cleaning cart. Cleaning staff is seen
unsuccessfully trying to retain the cleaning bottle. quickly turns up the cleaning bottle
as if to drink it. One staff already in the hall and additional staff all immediately obtain the
cleaning bottle from . A few minutes later a nurse assesses and is seen reading the
ingredients on the cleaning bottle. The nurse is heard saying to send out for further
assessment. Per facility report, sustained no injuries from this incident. Facility
protocol is that if a client is acting out, that maintenance does not clean in that area at that
time. Client was not acting out. was sitting calmly on the floor and gave no
warning before grabbing cleaning bottle. Staff immediately addressed the situation and
obtained the bottle from . was assessed by the nurse and sent to the hospital for
further medical assessment.