Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 023679
Date of Incident: 8/24/2024
Date Received: 9/3/2024
Facility Name: Piney Ridge Treatment Center
Facility Number: 203
Incident Type: Dual
Report Description: On 08/25/2024, wrote a
grievance against BHA saying that called him,
and another resident a name. He said shoved them on their beds
and ripped up their papers. Upon speaking with the RC, it was reported that and
had been antagonizing all night, calling him names and commenting on
his deceased child. After internal review, this was reported to the and
was accepted for investigation on 8/30/24. The incident was assigned to the
. It is believed by PRTC that the was only accepted for
The staff has been suspended pending investigation. came
to interview the resident on 9/1/24
Interim Action Narrative:
Maltreatment Narrative:
Over the
weekend, on 8/24, wrote a grievance saying entered his and ?s
bedroom and shoved them both. 2 other roommates were asleep and didn?t see it. When
they were shoved, fell backwards into his bed and hit his head on the top bunk.
was shoved into the bookshelf. It is unknown if hit his head. No reported
injuries. Another staff reported hearing the 2 kids yelling that shoved them and
responded with ?yeah because you kicked me first?. then started ripping up
the children?s things. was suspended from the facility.
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Licensing Narrative: 9/3/2024 - The complaint was reviewed by the licensing specialist.
Permission was obtained from investigator to follow up with the facility for the
following information: ? If the resident wrote a grievance on 8/24/2024, why was it not
called into the until 8/30/2024?[Ronissa Adams] complaint was completed on
8/25/24, the patient advocate was out for emergency family leave, obtained on 8/27/24 late
in the afternoon by admin. The complaint was confusing at first and was reviewed
internally. ? Confirm the staff is on suspension[Ronissa Adams] - yes ? Request any witness
statements - In most instances these are not released. We will further consult with corporate.
? Is any video footage of these children?s hallway to show if the staff went into the
bedroom[Ronissa Adams] - We tried to download the video ? but it kept erroring out and
would not save. But it is not uncommon for staff to go into bedrooms to unlock bathroom
doors, etc. ? The names of all the staff that were working on this until at the time of the
alleged incident. [Ronissa Adams] , and was
assigned to East. I do believe that various supervisors were working at the facility that night,
to include the COO and CEO. Various different timeframes where reported. ? Names of all
the roommates in this bedroom[Ronissa Adams] - and
Has this A/O ever had any complaints made about him before[Ronissa
Adams] HR Director will not be back in the office until Wednesday ? 9/4/24. 9/4/2024 -
Licensing specialist followed up with the facility. Requested a copy of the resident grievance
form and facility policy for mandated reporting. Notified the facility that it is common
practice to request witness statements from the facility and would need them no later than
9/6/2024. 9/5/2024 - The following response was received from facility staff: "It was
confusing because the times that the residents listed on complaints was earlier in the night.
In addition, the complaint alluded to this occurring in the bedroom hallway according to at
least one of the residents. The time frame was confusing as Trish Marshall and Justin
Hoover was at the facility that evening for multiple hours including one or the other of the
two spending a lot of time on the east unit hallway. Trish Marshall ? COO, Ronissa Adams ?
DPI/RM and Kathy Vickers ? DHR reviewed multiple hours of video from that night and
from what we saw in the hallway ? could not see what we understood of the incident.
However both Trish and I attempted to save video from the evening/night in question and
it kept erroring out and would not save. Because of the different time frames being said and
a couple of different places where the incident could have occurred we believed it was
important to review thoroughly. If you plan to come here ? I can show you the statements
and continue to consult on your request. FYI will be here tomorrow to speak to
individuals. Jarred ? I hope that this clears up any confusion as we continue our
collaboration. In addition I have attached the policies to this email." Resident grievance
and facility policy attachments have ben reviewed and uploaded to ELS. 9/6/2024 - A visit
was conducted at the facility to address concerns for the complaint, obtain witness
statements for the following staff: , , and . Obtain
witness statements for the following residents: and
obtain a copy for the grievance report made on 8/25/2024 from resident

and address the report not being made immediately after the it was
reported to staff. Staff was interviewed at the facility in regards to mandated
reporting and the reported complaint. 9/26/2024, facility inquired about ICA being lifted.
9/30/2024 - Findings 521 inspection sent to facility. Licensing findings are UNFOUNDED.
Training for the incident has been reviewed and uploaded to ELS. 10/22/2024 Approved by
Progream Coordinator. Case complete.