Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 11/6/2023
Date Received by DCCECE:11/7/2023
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for DOB: is a private
placement client in our PRTF program and resides in Mabee House. Incident Report
date/time: 11/06/23 2:05pm Location of Incident: Siebert School Incident Description: Self
Injury(Not Suicidal), Suicidal, Aggressive to Adults, Attempted Runaway, Threat to Safety
Staff Involved: Christian Spratt, Rodney Ellis, Charles Hoof, Elizabeth Larson Events
Leading: The patient was putting a snake like fidget toy around her neck. A peer stated that
she could get in trouble for playing around in that manner. She stated that she did not care
as she was already on consequence. Staff informed her that unsafe behaviors would land her
on other consequences. She was not pleased to hear this and threw he things down and ran
out the door fleeing. 2:05pm: Personal Restraint: The patient fled the area of supervision
and was restrained to prevent elopement. She began kicking the walls and kicked a door
into staff as she being escorted towards seclusion. She ignored staff as they tried to speak
with her to calm her down. 2:06pm: Personal Restraint End: The patient was asked could
she remain calm and she nodded her head in agreeance and was released from the restraint.
2:07pm: Other/None: The patient voluntarily entered the seclusion area to have a moment
to herself and began kicking and punching the wall. Staff asked that she take a seat or stand
quietly in order to collect her thoughts rather than self harm. 2:11pm: Personal Restraint: She
ignored this and continued to punch the wall. She was restrained as a result and she began
kicking staff in the legs and stomping on their feet. 2:15pm: Personal Restraint End:
Additional staff arrived that she appeared to have rapport with and she agreed to be calm
and compliant and process with them. After talking with them for a few minutes she showed
calm behavior and she was released. 2:17pm Personal Restraint: The patient became
annoyed that she was still at the school and not on her way to the house and she began
digging her nails into her left arm leaving marks. Staff restrained her to further prevent this.
She voiced that she felt she had nothing to live for and no longer felt like being good.
2:19pm: Personal Restraint End: Staff continuously processed with her to keep her in good
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

spirits and keep her calm. Once again contracting for safety she was released and staff
helped her gather her things to return to the house. Patient Debriefing date/time:
11/06/2023 2:55pm: The patient did not want to speak on the incident so staff briefly asked
her to try to communicate her feelings in the future before doing something brash. She
nodded her head in agreeance. Pt was placed on Freeze, eyeball and FOH. Upon returning
to the house, pt continued to test limits and struggled to remain safe. Nursing Assessment
date/time: 11/06/23 2:21pm: Pt was seen my this nurse. Assessed at this time. Pt states that
she has nothing to live for and isn't going to continue to participate and doesn't want to be
here anyone. Pt states that she doesn't care about anything. Pt denies pain or injury at this
time. Pt is noted to have fingernail marks to left forearm where she dug her nails into arm to
attempt to self harm, Did not break the skin, superficial indentions noted to skin. Pt states I
do not care upon nurising examining arms. Guardian was contacted on 11/06/23 at 3:14pm
and 3:20pm: 0314pm mom did not answer, left voicemail to call charge nurse phone,
information passed on to Meredith Reddin RN- Liz Larson RN 1520 - Mother called charge
phone. Information given to guardian. No further needs at this time. - Meredith R., BSN
RN. UM Debriefing date/time: 11/06/23 4:00pm: Injuries to staff and client: Staff was hit by
a door. No injuries to pt from intervention. Pt did claw self. Follow-up to injuries: Staff
stated they called Medcore and will self care as directed. Pt seen by nurse, placed on eyeball
and FOH. What actions might prevent the injuries: If pt had displayed safe behavior, staff
would not have been injured. If pt had utilized her coping skills, injury would not have
occurred. Staff quickly intervened to prevent any serious injury from her self-harm attempts.
Additional Comments for this incident: Pt continues to struggle to remain safe and needs to
continue developing coping skills.
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was placed in restraints for safety. Resident was placed
on freeze, eyeball, and FOH. Resident was assessed by the nurse.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing Specialist reviewed provider reported incident for licensing
concerns. 11/9/2023, Licensing Specialist will inquire about FOH. Licensing Specialist
informed that FOH stands for "front of house."