Observations:
AFMC staff reviewed the final document request form with the Administration at the completion of
the on-site Inspection of Care. The provider signed the acknowledgement of manual requirements that
were made available in the provider’s policy and procedures. AFMC staff explained that these findings
were preliminary and there was still an off-site portion to be completed.
Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality-of-Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list was
requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was completed. The
following is a summary of findings and noted deficiencies.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no client interviews
were conducted.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
Staff and clients were observed throughout the facility in the classroom setting on the school unit and in their
rooms on the units. Clients were engaged in schoolwork and activities. Staff were calmly interacting with clients
and providing a therapeutic environment that was conducive for learning and treatment therapies.
Medication Pass:
No active FFS Medicaid clients received medications during medication pass. Due to the observation of non-
Medicaid clients not being complaint with the HIPAA minimal necessary rule, no medication pass was
observed. AFMC RN visited with the facility’s medication nurse who was able to show AFMC RN the facility
policies and procedures regarding medication administration, count, reconciliation, and handling of controlled
substances, and medication discrepancies.
The tour of the medication room was completed with the facility’s medication nurse. The medication room was
clean and well-organized in a way to provide safety in medication administration. There was a vial of tuberculin
skin test found to be open in the medication refrigerator. The vial was not labeled with the date it was opened or
with the initials of the nurse who opened it. This was reported immediately to the Administrator. The
Administrator reported back to AFMC staff that they talked with the Director of Nursing who stated the staff
nurse had already reported the opened, unlabeled vial and had removed it from the medication room refrigerator.
No other issues were noted during the medication room tour.
Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no clinical records
reviews were conducted.
Respectfully,
Inspection of Care Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
Delta Family Health and Fitness Center For Childre – Hamburg, AR – IOC Report 2 | P ag e