reporting timeframe of the next business day.
Medicaid IP Sec. 2; There is no documentation in the HR The provider lacked evidence of semi-annual training
CFR 42 482.130, records that all direct care personnel for all direct care personnel, as well as demonstrated
483.376 are trained in the facility's Restraint competency in facility's Restraint and Seclusion policy
and Seclusion policy. and appropriate procedures to be used in Restraint and
Seclusion interventions.
Medicaid IP Sec. 2: HR records did not indicate that all The provider lacked evidence of all direct care personnel
221.804; CFR 42 direct care personnel have ongoing have ongoing education, training, and demonstrated
482.130, 483.376 education, training, and demonstrated knowledge of techniques to identify staff and resident
knowledge of techniques to identify behaviors, events and environmental factors that may
staff and resident behaviors that may trigger emergency safety situations on a semi-annual
trigger an emergency safety situation basis.
semi-annually.
Observation:
AFMC conducted an additionally ordered inspection of care on August 27, 2024. At that time the provider lacked evidence
of submission by July 21st of the current year to Arkansas Medicaid a Letter of Attestation that the facility is in compliance
with CMS standards regarding the use of Restraint and Seclusion. The provider was able to show evidence that a current
Letter of Attestation was signed by the CEO on 08/28/24 (the day after the last IOC) and was submitted by mail on 09/04/24.
Facility Tour:
Upon arrival to facility, AFMC staff was greeted at the locked entrance by a staff nurse who stated they would let someone
in administration know AFMC was onsite to conduct an Inspection of Care. AFMC staff signed the visitor log in the lobby
while waiting. Another staff member returned to the lobby and AFMC staff were taken to the conference room to begin the
Inspection of Care. The Chief Executive Office and the Director of Human Resources came to the conference room
immediately. Facility staff were given the Document Request Form and AFMC staff discussed the requirements for the
Inspection of Care. AFMC staff received the completed and signed consent form listing approval for access to the AFMC
portal prior to arrival for site visit.
AFMC staff requested a tour of the facility with the Director of Nursing. When questioned by the CEO regarding whether
it had to be the Director of Nursing conduct the tour AFMC shared with the CEO that at the last several inspections of care
the Director of Nursing had been unaccounted for either due to being on Paid Time Off or because they had chosen not to
be engaged in the inspection of care. The CEO informed AFMC staff that the Director of Nursing had requested PTO for
that day but had decided to come in to work.
A tour of the facility was completed with the Chief Executive Officer and the Director of Nursing. Areas toured included
the seclusion room, medication room and nurses’ station, cafeteria, three girls’ units, gymnasium, an outdoor courtyard, and
the educational classroom unit. The three girls’ units, Orange Unit (younger girls), Blue Unit (middle school aged girls),
and Green Unit (teenage girls), each have a day room with a television, a small table and several chairs. The area provides
adequate space for group sessions and activities. Each unit also has five client rooms with two beds in each room. Each
room includes a bathroom with a sink, toilet, and shower. Beds are wooden frames that have previously had a piece of
pressed wood holding the mattress within the solid wood frame. Recently, the Director of Maintenance has replaced the
pressed wood with a solid piece of plywood as the clients were peeling back pieces of the pressed wood to use for self-
harm. AFMC staff did observe graffiti with profanity on the wall of the day room on the Green Unit. The CEO immediately
notified maintenance to remove/paint over graffiti.
AFMC staff observed one staff member standing at the central nurses’ station yelling “hold on” several times over their
shoulder at what appeared to be a client. Two other staff members were observed at the desk calmly completing tasks.
Staff and clients were noted in the outside courtyard in what appeared to be free time. Several clients were sitting with staff
at a picnic table and were engaged in conversations. Several other clients were noted to be sitting on the ground quietly
enjoying the cooler weather and fresh air. Staff members were noted to be calmly interacting with clients and providing a
therapeutic environment. Staffing was in ratio with facility policy.
Woodridge of the Ozarks- Springdale, AR. - IOC Report 2 | P ag e



shared with the CEO and Director of Risk Management who stated that evening shift change is a really hard time
for staff and clients, and they have also noticed that trend.
• Upon review of the Restraint and Seclusion Log and the Emergency Safety Intervention Packets received for
September 28, 2024, and September 29, 2024, the following observations were noted:
o There were fourteen episodes of restraints and seclusion initiated during a one hour and thirty-four-minute
time frame (from 7:53 p.m. until 9:27 p.m.) involving nine clients.
o There were ten episodes of restraints and seclusion initiated during a one hour and twenty-five-minute
time frame (from 7:11 p.m. until 8:36 p.m.) involving four clients.
o The nursing narrative note in the Emergency Safety Intervention Packets were noted to be the same note
copied and placed in multiple packets instead of being individualized to each client’s behavior. The
nursing narrative notes that were copied to multiple packets referred to all residents being dysregulated
and verbally aggressive and “some became physically aggressive”. The note describes the milieu as a
whole and not the individual client that was restrained. By reading the nursing narrative, a physical
restraint was not always warranted.
o The front page of the Emergency Safety Intervention Packet has an area for short answer justification of
why the restraint and seclusion of the client was needed. Documentation from nursing staff included
statements such as, “physical aggression toward staff” or “resident had aggressive behavior”, but the
narrative note does not state any actual behaviors leading up to why they needed restraint or seclusion.
o One nursing narrative note for September 29, 2024, it was noted that the nurse documented “the attitude
and defiance toward staff has continued all day from last night”, but no serious occurrences or incidents
with any clients or staff requiring restraint or seclusion was documented on the dayshift.
• Upon review of the staffing versus client ratios for both dayshift and nightshift for September 28, 2024, and
September 29, 2024, it was noted that all shifts were staffed within the facility’s policy and the regulatory
standard for staff to client ratio.
• AFMC staff did note that one of the Serious Occurrence Forms was not reported within the correct timeframe.
The incident occurred on Sunday, September 29, 2024, at 1:00 a.m., where a client had a piece of wood and self-
harmed, resulting in a laceration to the right forearm. The client was transported to
and received six stitches. The occurrence should have been reported
within 24 hours on the next business day. The report was not received to the appropriate agencies until Tuesday,
October 01, 2024, due to the Director of Risk Management did not send it before the close of business the next
day. The Director of Risk Management stated that they did not realize that close of business meant receiving by
5:00 p.m.
Respectfully,
Inspection of Care Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
Woodridge of the Ozarks- Springdale, AR. - IOC Report 4 | P ag e