Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 2/13/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 2/13/2023
Facility Name: Perimeter of the Ozarks
Facility Number: 237
Facility Type: Residential
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Name: DOB: Guardian: DHS (TX) -
Notified On 2/13/23 at approximately 0900, became upset about having to move units
and stole a staff member's walkie. She broke the clip and went down the hall and began
attempting to self-harm her arms/legs. She was blocked by staff when she was attempting
to self-harm and eventually placed the contraband in her pants. willingly walked out of
the unit to comfort room per direction of staff. While in the comfort room, began
attempting to use the contraband in her pocket to self-harm her legs. A physical hold was
initiated to maintain safety per Dr. Froman. Contraband was retrieved by RN. Once safe
behavior was exhibited, was released from hold. She sat in the comfort room and talked
with staff about her frustrations about moving units. While doing so, she became
dysregulated again and took another walkie from the milieu and placed it in her pants. She
refused to give the walkie back to the staff and again, attempted to use walkie to self-harm.
She was placed in a second brief physical hold to retrieve contraband. Once safe behavior
and calm demeanor was observed, resident was released. She walked over to her new unit
willingly. A little while later while on her unit, she began trying to climb wall to get to the
fire alarm on the ceiling but was unsuccessful due to staff intervention. This evening, she
grabbed a staff's keys from around their neck stating she was going to attempt to escape the
unit. The keys were retrieved by staff promptly. Resident was eventually able to regulate
emotions by processing with staff. Resident assessed by RN and no injuries were sustained
from any events listed above. Resident placed on self-harm precautions with constant line of
sight, as well as assault and property destruction precautions as a result of these events.
Interim Action Narrative:
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Discussed this series of incidents with Cassie Sowder CEO. She stated
that resident became escalated due to a room change. She stole a walkie from a staff
member to self-harm and later stole a key from around a staff member's neck by breaking
the lanyard. The second time she obtained a walkie happened shortly after she was released
from restraint after demonstrating calm behaviors. Staff had taken walkies off in order to
complete the restraint. She grabbed one off of the milieu counter and it was quickly
retrieved. She has been placed on a self-harm precaution plan and an assault and property
destruction precaution plan. Staff reports that her behaviors have stabilized since incident,
and she has expressed to CEO that she likes her new unit better than she thought that she
would.