Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 027805
Date of Incident: 2/23/2025
Date Received: 2/24/2025
Facility Name: Yellow Rock Behavioral Health
Facility Number: 203
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Child?s Name:
( resident in parental custody) A peer approached a staff and informed them of the
following incident: The peer left the bathroom of room 208 and this resident entered with an
extra pair of jeans in hand. As the resident was attempting to close the bathroom door, the
resident hung the bottom of the pants legs on the top of the door. The groin area of the
pants were left hanging upside down and as the resident placed his head in the loop,
attempting to hang himself from the pair of jeans. The door did not close completely and
caught the attention of the peer, the peer opened the bathroom door completely and
removed the pants from the peer and alerted staff outside the bedroom door. A supervisor
and nurse went to the situation and observed the resident sitting on his bed. When nursing
began asking the resident about this incident, the resident disclosed that his actions were to
"End the pain" that he reports constantly feeling and that he was upset with peers that had
been verbally bullying him all day. The resident was cooperative in removing all items from
his bedroom and placing his mattress in the hallway for continuous observation. No ligature
marks, redness or any injury noted on the resident's neck by nurse. Resident declined injury
or pain to the area. Nursing completed C-SSRS, contacted provider on call, and resident
placed on suicide precautions for twenty-four hours. Resident's personal belongings placed
in the nurses station. Administrator on call, therapist on call and primary therapist notified
via secure message @2035. Upon assessment today and after the resident spoke to the
Therapist and physician it was decided to make a referral for He was accepted to
and will be transported tonight by our transportation team. Residents guardians
have been notified of the transfer.
Interim Action Narrative:
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing reviewed the report and will request nursing notes and
resident status if they will return after . Nursing notes and incident report received
from facility, documentation reviewed and uploaded to ELS. 2/27/2025- Licensing
specialist sent follow up inquiry if the resident will be returning after . Facility
response received " the resident will be returning after ."