Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 025028
Date of Incident: 10/28/2024
Date Received: 10/29/2024
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Reports for
client in our PRTF program and resides in Rose House Incident Report 1
date/time: 10/28/24 5:54pm Location of Incident: Rose House Incident Description: Self
Injury (Not Suicidal), Aggressive to Adults, Threat to Safety Staff Involved: Brittney
Hubbard, Brayjana Pettigrew, Joseph Davis, Ashley Sims, Tyreesha McCollum, Zharieah
Foreman, Matthew Chrysler Events Leading: Client was escalated since the beginning of
the shift and non compliant and not following staff directions. Client earlier in the day was
jumping on furniture, not staying in her area, grabbing things that did not belong to her,
scratching her cuts and making them bleed, banging on tables and chairs and putting
objects over her face and head. Client reported she was hungry and this is why she was
acting out. Client then continued to escalate and began walking around the room and not
following directions. Client continued to scratch her scabs and cuts. Client would not
comply and continued to do unsafe behaviors and would not accept redirection. Client
began tearing things off the wall. 5:55pm-Personal Restraint: Client was placed in a sitting
personal restraint by staff due to increasingly escalated behaviors and unstable,
unpredictable and unsafe behaviors when beginning to pull things off the wall after her
continually being a threat to safety. Client began sliding herself into the floor so staff
followed and continued with a floor restraint. 6:00pm-Personal Restraint End: Staff began to
let go of the client to see if she was going to be compliant and contract for safety. 6:01pm-
Personal Restraint: Client rolled on to her back and began attempting to self harm by biting
her hand and then began kicking staff near her legs and staff restarted the restraint. 6:11pm-
Personal Restraint End: Client began calming down and not resisting her restraint and
contracted for safety so staff began letting go and allowed the client to sit up in the floor to
further deescalate. Patient Debriefing date/time: 10/28/24 6:30pm: Client was still very
upset and was begging staff and her therapist to not make her go to acute. Client
continually repeated "please don't let them take me, I promise I'll be good." Nursing
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Assessment date/time: 10/28/24 6:30pm: Client required personal restraint due to self
harming. Upon my arrival, client was on the floor in active restraint, struggling with staff.
Client yelled out, continued to struggle with staff and look behind her frequently. Client was
partially released and she pulled her hair and/or bit on her own hand. Personal restraint was
restarted. Client eventually calmed down and was released from restraint. Client tearful,
pleaded with therapist no to go to acute. Client has no obvious new injury from this incident
and has no obvious injury noted. Alert and oriented, gait steady, full/active ROM all
extremities. Denies injury. Client left via MEMs around 6:30pm for acute. Guardian was
notified on 10/28/24 at 6:34pm Incident Report 2 date/time: 10/28/24 6:25pm Location of
Incident: Rose House Incident Description: Self Injury(Not Suicidal), Suicidal, Threat to
Safety Staff Involved: Michael Proveaux, Matthew Chrylser Events Leading: was
transported by MEMs to Rivendell Behavioral Health for acute hospitalization at 6:25pm.
has been making suicidal comments and has been self-harming for the past 6 days.
She required at least 3 personal restraint in the past 3 days in order to stop her from self-
harming, including this evening after being accepted for acute care. Guardian was notified
on 10/28/24 at 6:34pm. will be returning to Youth Home after her acute stay at
Rivendell. I
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was placed in personal restraints for safety and
transported to acute care via MEMS.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing reviewed provider reported incident for licensing concerns.
Program Coordinator requested documentation for this provider reported incident. Facility
provided documentation for this provider reported incident.