Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 020496
Date of Incident: 4/10/2024
Date Received: 4/11/2024
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Client: PRTF client
Chestnut house Incident Start: 4/10/24 @ 3:15 PM Intervention Type: Personal Restraints,
Locked Seclusion, Acute Placement Incident Description: Aggressive to adults, threat to
safety Staff Involve: Shelia Glass (Personal Restraint, Reporting Staff, Seclusion), Darryel
Sanders (Initiating Staff, Personal Restraint, Seclusion), Jon Pulliam (Personal Restraint,
Seclusion), Joseph Davis (Nurse, Personal Restraint, Seclusion) De-escalation Techniques
prior to intervention: Staff Support and Voluntary Timeout/Comfort Room Events Leading:
Once the rest of the patients came from school and went to their rooms, patient remained in
the milieu. Staff asked patient if he wanted to talk with staff and he stated he did not.
Patient went to the rec room and sat in a chair. While the unit manager was talking with
another patient, patient turned the radio up and was asked to turn it off if he wanted to
remain in the rec room. Patient then attempted to push the radio. Staff stepped in front of
the radio. Patient then began rolling the chair out into the milieu and to the back dorm area.
Patient was asked to return to his room in which patient ignored staff's request. Patient then
took his chair and rammed it into the staff's desk causing it to shift. Patient then rolled his
chair and took the back of his chair to try to open a patient's door that was shut. Staff pulled
the chair back from the patient's door. Staff had talked to patient for over twenty minutes
with patient offering alternatives such as processing, going to his room or the comfort room
but patient refused and also did not want to follow directions. Patient was informed that due
to his unsafe behavior that he would be asked to go to unlocked seclusion if he could not go
to his room. Patient continued to sit in the chair. 3:15 PM Personal Restraint: Staff placed
patient in personal restraints. Patient then stated that he wanted to return to his room. 3:15
PM Personal Restraint End: Staff informed patient that he would be released in order for
him to walk to his room. Patient snatched his arm away from staff. Patient was released
from personal restraints. Patient then went behind the door and in his room and started
beating on the door. Staff informed patient that he was released so that he could calm down
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

in his room. Patient did not respond to staff. After five minutes, patient walked out of his
room and into the milieu to sit in a chair. Staff asked patient to return to his room in which
patient refused. Staff offered the patient time in the comfort room but informed him that he
could not remain in the milieu. Due to patient's unsafe behavior, patient was placed in
personal restraints. 3:24 PM Personal Restraint: Patient began struggling and became
aggressive with staff by kicking staff in the leg. He then began using profanity and asked
staff to get off of him. Staff began removing patient's shoes as he continued to struggle. 3:26
PM Personal Restraint End: Patient continued to aggressively struggle while in personal
restraint. Staff was talking to patient and asking him to calm down but patient continued to
demand that staff get off of him and continued to escalate. Patient was released from
personal restraints. 3:27 PM Locked Seclusion: Due to patients volatile, aggressive and
unsafe behavior, patient as placed in locked seclusion. Patient began screaming and stated
that staff scratched him. Staff informed patient that staff's hand was on the sleeve of his
shirt as he was being held underneath his shoulder. Patient then began banging on the
window. Patient began demanding to come out of the seclusion room. Patient stated that if
staff would allow him to come out, he would stop banging on the window and screaming.
Staff informed patient that he had to show safe behavior in order for him to be released.
Patient stated that if staff wanted him to do something that staff had to do what he wanted.
Staff informed patient that he had to make the choice to calm down in order to work his way
out of locked seclusion. Staff then observed patient with his bracelet as he stated that he was
going to put it around his neck. Staff asked patient if he would give the staff his bracelet in
which he responded that he would not. 3:32 PM Locked Seclusion End: Due to patient
having the bracelet and attempting to put it around his neck, the door to locked seclusion
was opened in order to retrieve the bracelet. 3:33 PM Personal Restraint: Patient was placed
in personal restraint in order to retrieve the bracelet. Staff was able to retrieve the bracelet.
3:35 PM Personal Restraint End: Patient was released from being personally restrained.
Patient began crying and screaming at staff. 3:36 PM Locked Seclusion: Once staff released
patient and locked the seclusion door, patient began screaming that no one was trying to
help him. Staff encouraged patient to work on calming down and making right choices.
Staff informed patient that staff was there to assist him but patient stated that staff was not
there to help him. Patient again began to demand to be released from locked seclusion. Staff
informed patient that he had to work on showing safe behavior and that he can be calm as
well as compliant. After ten minutes of trying to de-escalate patient, patient then took a
water bottle out of his pocket. Patient began banging on the door with the water bottle as
well as throwing it up to the ceiling. Patient then began hitting himself on the head with the
water bottle. Staff asked patient to allow staff to retrieve the water bottle. Patient then placed
the water bottle inside of his gym shorts. 3:47 PM Locked Seclusion End: Due to patient
having a water bottle which was a safety concern and continued unsafe behavior, staff ended
locked seclusion in order to retrieve the water bottle. Patient continued to ignore staff's
directions to give staff the water bottle. 3:48 PM Personal Restraint: Patient was asked
numerous times to give staff the water bottle to no avail. Patient aggressively struggled with
staff. Patient was placed in personal restraint in order to retrieve the water bottle. Patient
was using profanity and was not being cooperative. As staff exited the area, patient grabbed
staff's shirt. Another staff assisted in helping staff to be released from patient's grip of his

shirt. 3:49 PM Personal Restraint End: Staff released patient from personal restraints. 3:50
PM Locked Seclusion: Patient began screaming at staff and then asked if he could have his
anxiety medication to help him calm down. The nurse informed patient that he had
medication at noon but that he would contact the doctor to see how soon he could
administer it to him. The nurse encouraged him to work on calming down so that he can
work out of locked seclusion. Patient then sat on the floor. 4:05 PM Locked Seclusion:
Patient was observed sitting on the floor. Staff informed patient that he was doing a good
job of calming down. Staff asked patient if he was ok but patient did not respond. Staff
continued to monitor patient. 4:20 PM Locked Seclusion: Patient continues to sit on the
floor. Staff informed patient that if he is able to remain calm and show himself safe, staff
would began the procedure of processing him out of locked seclusion. Patient did not
respond. 4:35 PM Locked Seclusion End: Patient was calm and was sitting on the floor. Staff
released patient from locked seclusion. Nursing Face-to-Face Assessment 4/10/24 3:40 PM
Client required personal restraint after multiple attempts of de-escalation. Client also has
refused to follow staff direction. Began to roll around in a chair, banging into
furniture/staff. Personal restraint was initiated to transfer client to his room, then he would
not stay in his room. Peers were moved to a different area. Client was assisted to seclusion,
he continued to struggle with staff until seclusion was locked. Attempts at processing failed
as client was agitated, screaming and banging on the seclusion window. When I asked him
the next right thing to do, he replied "your mom!". Client also stated that he has too many
people to restore with now. Client sat on the seclusion room floor. 4/10/24 4:40 PM Client
calmed down in seclusion and was released. He went to his room. Client denies pain/injury
from this incident and has no new obvious injury noted. Alert and oriented, PERRLA, gait
steady, full/active ROM all extremities. Client then came out to eat dinner as his peers were
in the cafe eating. He took his mealtime medication without incident. Respirations are even
and unlabored and there are no s/s distress noted. Client then went to his room and was
resting quietly. Around 7pm, client took PM meds without incident and was informed of
acute placement. Calm and cooperative, client packed a bag and agency staff and van
transported to Bridgeway acute around 7:45pm in stable condition. Patient Face-to- Face
Debriefing 4/10/24 4:40 PM Staff began to process with patient about how he could have
handled being upset differently. Patient stated that he did not want to talk. Staff informed
patient that once he was released that he would be on freeze status. A nurse assessed patient
and asked if he had any pain or if he was hurt. Patient stated that he was not in any pain or
hurting but became irritated by the questions. Patient was informed that he could return to
his room. Patient stated that he did not want to return. Staff asked him if he wanted to take
some time to himself and stay in the area. Patient stated that he wanted to stay. Staff moved
out of the area but monitored him. Patient later came out and returned to his room.
Guardian Notification: 4/10/24 6:50 PM Legal Guardian: 4/10/24 7:45 PM
Legal Guardian: Guardian notified on first attempt, reports assessment was
done over the phone for acute placement. Guardian notified at 7:45pm that client had just
left for transport to Bridgeway Staff Debriefing 4/10/24 5:00 PM - No injuries reported
Additional Comments: Pt is increasingly unstable. Tries to show everyone that he is a tough
kid. Tentative Safety Plan if/when client returns from acute: In the event that is
readmitted to Youth Home, he would be placed on Close Observation status (pending

doctor approval) until we can ensure that we can meet his safety needs. More finalized plans
will be made closer to discharge from Bridgeway.
Interim Action Narrative:
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: 4/11/24, Licensing Specialist reviewed Provider Reported Incident for
licensing concerns. 4/16/24, per facility, Resident will not be returning upon his discharge
from acute care. 4/25/24, Facility visited. Video reviewed of incident. No citations issued.