Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 020265
Date of Incident: 3/31/2024
Date Received: 4/2/2024
Facility Name: Perimeter Behavioral of West Memphis
Facility Number: 231
Incident Type: Dual
Report Description: Residents Name: On 3/31/24 at
18:20 Resident was placed in a restraint for physical aggression towards staff. Resident
also received chemical injection for inability to calm down and assaultive bx towards staff.
No injuries to resident were noted following the restraint. On 4/1/24 Resident alleged
that and choked me and threw me and made me hit my
head.? Suspected abuse report was made 4/1/24 and accepted for investigation
. Camera footage was reviewed, and resident did not appear to have been choked
by either or , however both staff have been removed from working on
PRTF pending investigation. is seen on camera initiating physical restraint on
resident alone and escorting her to the seclusion room hallway, upon entering the hallway
the resident is seen falling to the ground. has been placed on administrative
leave pending investigation effective today 4/2/24. Actions Taken: Resident was evaluated
for injuries by our Nurse Practitioner Roslyn Perry, APRN on 4/1/24 Resident complained
of a headache 5/10 pain. Roslyn states no swelling or tenderness was noted on palpation.
Overall normal examination but did order X-ray 3V of her skull and neuro checks x48 hours.
X-ray results: ?No skull fracture. The mandible is normal. Bilateral maxillary sinuses are
clear. The visualized upper cervical spine is normal. No Acute Abnormality.? Other Parties
Notified: Guardian: DHS (Pulaski County)
Interim Action Narrative: Staff was placed on suspension pending the results of the
maltreatment investigation.
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Maltreatment Narrative: Resident alleged that and choked
me and threw me and made me hit my head.?
Licensing Narrative: 04/02/24 LS White will verify that doc order is accompanying the
chemical restraint while on site as well as review camera footage and inquire why this was
not reported timely. Permission was granted by investigator to view camera footage and
review restraint documentation. 04/03/24 LS White conducted an unannounced visit to
review camera footage. Time: 3:00 PM to 5:00 PM Census: 18 Summer Berryhill assisted
Licensing Specialist with review of 90 mins of camera footage of before and after the
incident that occurred on 03/31/24 involving a physical then chemical restraint of a female
resident. Footage shows residents going into the day room from the gym accompanied by 3
staff. Said resident starts darting towards one particular staff. 2 other staff members
physically get between resident and the staff that the resident was darting towards. Said
resident then runs over and pushes over the water pitcher. Staff tries to get resident to go
through the door to the seclusion rooms and when resident starts swinging on staff ? he
then initiates a restraint hold and begins escorting resident through the door into the
seclusion rooms hall. As they enter the hall resident breaks free from the hold and falls
forward onto the floor. Camera footage verifies she falls forward as a result of her excessive
pulling forward. Staff ?s hands were at his sides showing that he did not push her as her
lunging forward caused the fall. Another restraint is then executed. Both physical restraints
were executed properly-no concerns. 5 staff are present during the hold in the hall. The
nurse enters and is viewed to be assessing the situation and then makes a phone call. Within
minutes doctor orders were received to execute a chemical restraint. Nurse then assesses
that resident is physically secure and proceeds with injecting chemical restraint into
resident?s hip. It is viewed that resident?s body relaxes, and she is released from the hold.
Resident then sits up with her back against the wall. Resident then gets up and staff walk
her to her room. She gets her hygiene bucket then rejoins the rest of the population in the
day room, gets a snack and is eating it. Restraint log for the last 30 days was reviewed-
complies. Doctor order regarding this chemical restraint reviewed-no concerns as it
complies with verified camera footage reviewed of the execution of the chemical restraint.
No regulations out of compliance. No technical assistance needed. Summer reported that 2
of the staff involved with this incident have completed restraint policy review 04/02/24. The
other staff ? who is currently suspended pending investigation will complete restraint
policy review before being released back to work. This incident occurred 03/31/24. On
04/01/24 resident declared staff physically assaulted her before the restraints on 03/31/24 at
that time facility made the report to the and reported the allegations to
licensing. Prior to the resident?s allegations this incident was not reportable per MLS 110.17.