Medicaid IP Sec. 2: State Criminal SR017961 No file received.
241.110B Background Check - SR017063
IP Acute Para-
professional
Observations:
AFMC staff reviewed the final document request form with the Director of Performance Improvement at the
completion of the on-site Inspection of Care and the provider signed the acknowledgement of manual requirements
that were not made available in the provider’s policy and procedures.
Clinical Summary
As a part of the Quality of Care survey of the IOC, an active Fee for Service (FFS) Medicaid client list was
requested, client and/or guardian interviews were conducted, and a clinical record review was completed. The
following is a summary of findings and noted deficiencies.
Client/Guardian Interviews:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no client interviews
were conducted.
Program Activity/Service Milieu Observation:
Staff and clients were observed throughout the facility in the classroom setting on the school unit and in organized
group activity in the gymnasium. Clients were engaged in schoolwork and activities. Staff were calmly interacting
with clients and providing a therapeutic environment that was conducive for learning and treatment therapies.
Medication Pass:
No active FFS Medicaid clients received medications during a medication pass while AFMC staff was onsite.
Due to the observation of non-Medicaid clients not being complaint with the HIPAA minimal necessary rule, no
medication pass was observed. AFMC RN visited with the facility medication nurse who was able to show
AFMC RN the facility policies and procedures regarding medication administration, narcotic
count/reconciliation/handling, and medication discrepancies.
Facility nurse was able to verbalize the step-by-step process of medication delivery including the demonstration
of the five rights of medication administration, documentation of medication delivery, verification of client
taking medication including mouth/cheek checks, and how clients are educated about each medication. The
facility nurse also verbalized the process utilized when a client refuses medication. Tour of medication room
completed no discrepancies with medication storage, cleanliness of medication room, and knowledge of
medication dispensing found.
Clinical Record Review Deficiencies:
There was no active FFS Medicaid clients currently admitted at the time of IOC. Therefore, no clinical records
reviews were conducted.
Corrective Action Plan:
The CAP must be completed within 30 calendar days of the date of the email notice of the IOC reports.
Additionally, any findings that were noted in any Health and Safety Inspection(s), which are governed by
certification rules and requirements, are shared with DPSQA and may result in other remedial actions, by
DPSQA, if warranted.
*For more details on the individual related deficiencies, please log into the portal.
Piney Ridge Treatment Center, LLC – Fayetteville, AR – IOC Report 3 | P ag e

Respectfully,
Inspection of Care Team
InspectionTeam@afmc.org
1020 W. 4TH ST., SUITE 300
LITTLE ROCK, AR 72201 • afmc.org
Piney Ridge Treatment Center, LLC – Fayetteville, AR – IOC Report 4 | P ag e