Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 029103
Date of Incident: 2/2/2025
Date Received: 4/18/2025
Facility Name: Yellow Rock Behavioral Health
Facility Number: 203
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: AV is . AOs a female therapist and a female staff
member at Piney Ridge Treatment Center, ages/names unknown. AV reported that while at
Piney Ridge his therapist gave him her business card and told him to call her if he needed
anything. AV disclosed that he wanted money, so he called the therapist. AV was told to
come over to the therapist?s home, and the therapist made the comment like AV ?took the
bait? and that he was the first one to ?take the bait.? AV has been having sexual relations
with the therapist after this initial encounter. AV has had multiple sexual encounters with
this therapist. Unknown how long this has been going on. AV and the therapist stopped
seeing each other on 02APR2025 due to AV being placed in the .
AV also reported that another staff member at Piney Ridge was trying to flirt with him. AV
reported that the staff member was sitting on the edge of his bed, and AV was startled by
this. AV stated that he had to turn down a sexual advance from this staff member. Both the
therapist and the staff member are still employed at Piney Ridge as far as AV is aware. AV
was admitted to Piney Ridge due to suicidal ideations. AV also has issues with anger. AV is
currently at and will be there for five to six
months. Both AOs work during the day at Piney Ridge.
Interim Action Narrative: suspended pending
the investigation
Narrative:
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Licensing Narrative: Licensing specialist Jarred Parnell reviewed the report. Licensing
specialist reached out to investigator for the names of the therapist and staff
alleged in the report. Licensing specialist scheduled a visit for 4/22/2025 to review resident
file and interview staff members. Licensing specialist received information from investigator
, the staff members alleged in the report are for and
, licensing specialist notified the facility that an ICA is needed for the named
staff. 4/22/25-The PRLU received an ICA request for staff . and it was reviewed. The
PRLU requested the ICA be revised to include how the facility will ensure . does not
have any unsupervised contact with the residents and who will be responsible for their
supervision during their shifts. The facility reports that the therapist was placed on
suspension, and they are unsure if they will be requesting an ICA at this time. 4/22/2025 - A
visit was conducted to review files for personnel and
Personnel files were reviewed for back ground checks and on-the-job
write ups, trainings, and licensure for . Children records review for
- Licensing specialist
Jarred Parnell interviewed | 9:20
AM - 9:44 AM I introduced myself with and told her I was with Licensing. I let her
know we had received a report and I confirmed if she could speak with me. I asked
if she remembers a resident named said yes. I asked to
tell me about that resident. said he was a troubled kid and had family issues.
stated he had mood issues as well. I asked when did this resident
discharge. said October or November of last year. I asked if this resident
has ever been to her personal residence. stated yes, the resident came to their
house, but it was months after they discharged. I asked when was this?
said November of last year. I asked again to confirm when the resident
discharged. stated she thinks maybe August or July. I asked what did
the resident do while at her personal residence. stated he mostly hung out with her
husband and did door dash, while rode along. I asked what was the
purpose of this? said her husband was just trying to be a good role model and
have positive interactions with . I asked to tell me how these interactions
started? stated found her husband on facebook and reached out, but this
was months after he discharged. I asked to provide her husbands name and
contact number - said his name is I asked
if ever hung out her residence while she was there. said yes but
never alone, my husband or children were always present. I asked if it was
common for her to have residents come over to her personal residence? said no
that it was not common. I asked if there was anything else she wanted to tell me,
asked if anyone else was going to call her because she hasn't heard anything. I let
know that investigations can sometimes last thirty days. I asked if i
could call her back if I need any more information, she said that's fine. The interview was
terminated. Licensing specialist staffed case with C. Vardell and K. Slade. Licensing
specialist sent an email to detailing the information obtained in the
interview. Licensing specialist spoke with . is awaiting an

interview from for the report. 4/25/2025 - Licensing specialist staffed
case with C. Vardell and K. Slade. Licensing specialist sent an email to
and requested to sit in and observe the interview with . Licensing specialist
Jarred Parnell received notification from is no longer
employed at Yellow Rock Behavioral Health. Licensing specialist requested the termination
documentation be sent to licensing. Licensing Specialist received termination
documentation from the facility, documentation was reviewed and uploaded to ELS.
terminated effective date is /2025. 4/30/2025 - Licensing Specialist
Jarred Parnell staff case 029151 with C. Vardell and K. Slade. Licensing specialist will obtain
information in regards to the guardian the resident was discharged to as well as the contact
information for the guardian. Licensing specialist attempted to contact at
the facility, a voicemail was left at 10:00 AM. Licensing Specialist sent an email to facility
staff letting her know i need the guardianship information for which the
resident was discharged to and the contact information for the guardian. Licensing
Specialist spoke with over the phone on 4/30/2025 at 11:10 AM - Ronissa
stated the resident was discharged to his
Licensing specialist
attempted to contact - I was not able to leave a voice mail.
The phone recording stated "this person is not accepting voicemails at this time, try to send
a text message". I texted the number this is Licensing Specialist Jarred Parnell with
Arkansas DHS, I need to speak with you concerning Yellow Rock Behavioral Health, please
call me at 479-313-3240. Licensing Specialist Jarred Parnell spoke with
was discharged from Yellow Rock Behavioral
Health. over the phone on 4/30/2025 at 11:45AM - 12:20PM Licensing Specialist Jarred
Parnell spoke with was
discharged from Yellow Rock Behavioral Health/Piney Ridge. I interviewed over
the phone . on 4/30/2025 at 11:45AM - 12:20PM - I introduced myself to
and told her i work for Licensing with Arkansas DHS. I told I was calling
to speak with her about Yellow Rock Behavioral Health. stated she wasn?t familiar
with Yellow Rock. I asked if she was aware of Piney Ridge? confirmed
and i let her know they are now Yellow Rock. I asked if she was familiar with
Piney Ridge, stated yes, her son was there last year. I asked to confirm
her son's name and she stated I asked was discharged from
Piney in her care. stated yes, around last year was discharged from
Piney and he came to live with me from when he was arrested.
I asked if during that time period he visited Arkansas. stated yes, he
would visit Arkansas to see some friends. I asked to tell me who the friends are.
said it was his therapist from Piney
. I asked if she gave consent to to visit
in Arkansas. stated yes. I asked how did get in
contact with once he was living back home. stated she thinks
he may have been in contact with mostly over Facebook because has his own
cell phone. I asked if she is the account holder for cell phone.
stated yes, she pays the bill, it is turned off but she has it in her possession. I asked

if she is able to access phone and see messages between
, and if she could send me the date of when those messages began.
stated she would have to charge the phone but would send me photos of the
conversation with the date and time stamp when the text conversations between
started. stated for the most part they were just hanging out
and working on a truck and a small mini motorcycle. I told that I didn't have any
further questions. I asked if she had any questions for me. wanted to
know what this was about. I told Licensing received a report and we are
investigating Piney Ridge for a standard concern. I also informed her there was an open
, and she may be contacted . I asked
if I had further questions, could I call her. stated yes. The interview was
terminated. Licensing Specialist received a text message from with photos
of text message conversation over facebook.
The photos were reviewed and uploaded to ELS. Licensing specialist received a text
message from with photos of phone with text messages and
facebook messages with . Licensing Specialist sent the interview
information with and photos from to
5/2/2025 - Licensing specialist received information from in
regards to . The email was uploaded to ELS. Licensing specialist received
notice of termination for documentation uploaded to ELS. 5/27/2025 -
Licensing Specialist Jarred Parnell staffed the case with supervisors K. Slade and C. Vardell,
licensing specialist followed up with the facility for a copy of the personnel file page that
shows received the facility policies, licensing specialist
requested a copy of the facility policy for the exploitation. 5/28/2025 - Licensing Specialist
received a copy of the "zero tolerance" policy from the facility. The policy was reviewed and
uploaded to ELS. This document does not have information regarding what is expected of
the "zero tolerance" practiced by the facility. Licensing specialist requested information
and content of what is communicated to employees in regards to "zero tolerance" for abuse
and neglect as communicated by facility risk management. Licensing specialist attempted
to contact for a case update. The call was not answered, a
voicemail was left. Licensing specialist received training documentation for
. The documentation was reviewed and uploaded to ELS. 5/30/2025- The
facility management requested a meeting with the DPSQA Director to discuss the findings
in this report further.

Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.508.8910 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
521 Visit Compliance Report
Licensee: Yellow Rock Behavioral Health
Facility Number: 203
Licensee Address: 2601 HABBERTON RD
SPRINGDALE AR 72764
Licensing Specialist: Jarred Parnell
Person In Charge:
Record Visit Date: 4/22/2025
Home Visit Date: 4/22/2025
Purpose of Visit: Complaint Visit
Regulations Out of Compliance:
Regulation Number: 100.109.1.g
Regulation Description: Unprofessional conduct in the practice of child welfare activities shall include, but not
limited to the following:
Finding Description: A staff member maintained a personal relationship with a former resident while they were
still employed at the facility.
Action Due Date: 2025-05-30
Action Due Description: The employee was terminated 5/1/2025.
Comply Date:
Sub-Regulation Level 1 Description: Engaging in behavior that could be viewed as sexual, dangerous,
exploitative, or physically harmful to children.
Regulations Needing Technical Assistance:
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 1 of 4

Regulation Not Applicable:
Regulations Not Correctable:
Narrative:
4/22/2025 - A visit was conducted at the facility by Licensing Specialist Jarred Parnell for case #
029103. The report alleged that a therapist at Yellow Rock Behavioral Health had given a resident
their business card. The report alleges this resident contacted the therapist and began visiting their
private home to have sexual interactions. The resident from the report also claims another staff
person at the facility used to flirt with him.
The following standard was reviewed as part of the investigation:
109.1.G Unprofessional conduct in the practice of child welfare activities shall include
without limitation:Engaging in behavior that could be viewed as sexual, dangerous,
exploitative, or physically harmful to children.
108.1.C The Arkansas Child Welfare Agency Review Board sets forth this section as a Code
of Ethics and Standards for Practice for all child welfare agencies within the State of
Arkansas Violations of the following shall be grounds for disciplinary action:c. Client
Relationships: Relationships with clients shall not be exploited by the child welfare agency
staff for personal gain.
Personnel files were reviewed for the staff people alleged in the report for updated background
checks, training, on-the-job write-ups and disciplinary actions.
The record for the resident alleged in the report was reviewed as part of the investigation.
Staff Interviews
4/23/2025 - Licensing specialist Jarred Parnell interviewed Staff 1 over the phone - | 9:20 AM - 9:44
AM
I introduced myself with Staff 1 and told her I was with Licensing. I let her know we had received a
report and I confirmed if she could speak with me. I asked Staff 1 to tell me about resident 1. Staff 1
said he was a troubled kid and had family issues. Staff 1 stated he had mood issues as well. I asked
Staff 1 when did this resident discharge. Staff 1 said October or November of last year. I asked Staff
1 if this resident has ever been to her personal residence. Staff 1 stated yes, the resident came to
their house, but it was months after their discharge. I asked Staff 1 when it was this that the resident
went to their home. Staff 1 said November of last year. I asked Staff 1 again to confirm when the
resident was discharged. Staff 1 stated she thinks maybe August or July of 2024. I asked Staff 1
what did the resident do while at her personal residence. Staff 1 stated he mostly hung out with her
husband and did door dash, while Resident 1 rode along. I asked Staff 1 what was the purpose of
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 2 of 4

this contact with the resident. Staff 1 said her husband was just trying to be a good role model and
have positive interactions with Resident 1. I asked Staff 1 to tell me how these interactions started.
Staff 1 stated Resident 1 found her husband on Facebook and reached out, after he was
discharged. I asked Staff 1 to provide her husband’s name and contact number - Staff 1 provided
the information. I asked Staff 1 if Resident 1 ever hung out at her residence while she was there.
Staff 1 said yes but never alone, my husband or children were always present. I asked Staff 1 if it
was common for her to have residents come over to her personal residence. Staff 1 said no that it
was not common. I asked Staff 1 if there was anything else she wanted to tell me. Staff 1 asked if
anyone else was going to call her because she hasn't heard anything. I let Staff 1 know that
investigations can sometimes last thirty days or more. I asked Staff 1 if I could call her back if I need
any more information, she said that's fine. The interview was terminated.
Guardian Interview
Licensing Specialist Jarred Parnell spoke with Guardian – 1. Resident 1 was discharged from
Yellow Rock Behavioral Health into Guardian – 1’s care. Licensing Specialist spoke with Guardian-
1 over the phone on 4/30/2025 at 11:45AM - 12:20PM
I introduced myself to Guardian - 1 and told her I work for Licensing with Arkansas DHS. I told
Guardian - 1 I was calling to speak with her about Yellow Rock Behavioral Health. Guardian - 1
stated she wasn’t familiar with Yellow Rock. I asked Guardian - 1 if she was familiar with Piney
Ridge. Guardian - 1 confirmed and I let her know they are now Yellow Rock. Guardian - 1 stated
yes, her son was there last year. I asked Guardian - 1 to confirm her son's name. I asked Guardian -
1 if Resident - 1 was discharged from Piney in her care. Guardian - 1 stated yes, around August last
year Resident - 1 was discharged from Piney and he came to live with me from August 2024 to
January 2025 when he was arrested. I asked Guardian - 1 if during that time he visited Arkansas.
Guardian - 1 stated yes, he would visit Arkansas to see some friends. I asked Guardian - 1 to tell
me who the friends are. Guardian - 1 said it was his therapist from Piney (Staff-1) and her husband.
I asked Guardian - 1 if she gave consent for Resident - 1 to visit Staff-1 and her husband in
Arkansas. Guardian - 1 stated yes. I asked Guardian - 1 how did Resident - 1 get in contact with
Staff - 1 and her husband once he was living back home. Guardian - 1 stated he may have been in
contact with Staff – 1’s husband mostly over Facebook because Resident - 1 has his own cell
phone. I asked Guardian - 1 if she is the account holder for Resident – 1’s phone. Guardian - 1
stated yes, she pays the bill, it is turned off, but she has it in her possession. I asked Guardian – 1 if
she can see resident-1’s messages and tell me the date of when Staff-1 and resident-1 started
texting. Guardian – 1 stated she would send me a photo of the conversation as so as possible. I told
Guardian - 1 that I didn't have any further questions. I asked Guardian - 1 if she had any questions
for me. Guardian - 1 wanted to know what this was about. I told Guardian - 1 Licensing received a
report and we are investigating Yellow Rock Behavioral Health formerly Piney Ridge for a licensing
complaint. I asked Parent - 1 if I had further questions, could I call her back. Parent - 1 stated yes.
Licensing specialist terminated the interview.
Information obtained through the investigation showed that Staff 1 had personal contact over the
phone and in person with resident 1 while still employed at Yellow Rock Behavioral Health. Phone
logs and social media account message logs were received and reviewed by the specialist. The
logs show that resident 1 had regular contact with staff 1 and her husband, which occurred as early
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 3 of 4

as October 25, 2024, while staff 1 was still employed.Licensing Specialist Jarred Parnell received
notification on 5/2/2025 from facility risk manager that Staff 1 has been terminated effective
4/25/2025 due to having personal contact with a resident after being discharged from the facility.
Complaint case 029103 has been FOUNDED by Licensing.
The facility is being issued a citation for standard 1091.GUnprofessional conduct in the
practice of child welfare activities shall include without limitation:Engaging in behavior that
could be viewed as sexual, dangerous, exploitative, or physically harmful to children.
***** Pursuant to A.C.A. § 9-24-406(e)(3-4): If you believe that the Department’s notice of
noncompliance is in error, you may ask for reconsideration. The request for reconsideration
must be in writing and delivered to the Department by certified mail within twenty (20)
business days of receipt of the notice of noncompliance. The request must specify the parts
of the notice that are alleged to be in error, explain why you believe those parts are in error,
and include documentation to support the allegation of error. Once received the Department
shall issue a decision on your request within twenty (20) days after receipt of the request.
Provider Comments:
CCL Staff Signature : Date: 4/22/2025
Provider Signature : Date: 4/22/2025
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 4 of 4