Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 027831
Date of Incident: 2/24/2025
Date Received: 2/25/2025
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for Private placement
client in our PRTF program and resides in House Incident Report date/time:
02/24/25 6:30pm Location of Incident: House Incident Description: Suicidal Staff
Involved: Jasmine Griffin, Joseph Davis Events Leading: i was doing phone calls and i
called clients mom clients mom stated that was disrespectful and hung up in her face
yesterday because she told her no to bringing makeup for her. client got upset about that
and went to her room about a hour later clients roommate came to me and told me to come
here i walked in her room and client was tearful and had her sweatpants around her neck,
client let me remove her pants from her neck and didn't really talk much i asked her why
was she upset she stated it was because she wanted to talk to her mom and she feels her
mom is being mean to her. Client wrote a last letter to mom stating she loves her but she
doesn't want to be here anymore. I asked client can she come to the mileu with me and the
client complied and came up to the mileu to sit with me. i called clients mom a little after
the incident and mom stated she still doesn't want to talk to her and that she has to protect
her peace and can't allow to be disrespectful as that is the whole reason she's at
youthhome. client appeared to calm down after meds and asked me to take a shower client
was placed on eyeball and complied with keeping the door cracked to be monitored.
Nursing Assessment date/time: 02/24/25 7:00pm: Client reportedly was in her room after a
bad phone call with guardian. Client reportedly tied pants around her neck. Staff was able to
remove ligature without restraint or injury. Client is nonverbal, looking downwards. Denies
pain/injury, shrugs shoulders. Neck appears wnl, full active ROM to neck, no signs of
injury noted. The tissue appears intact, there is no bruising noted. Client tearful, and agrees
that she had a bad phone call. Encouraged client to be strong and confident, as this
situation is temporary and suicide is a permanent solution to a temporary problem.
Encouraged client to use healthy coping skills like exercising, reading, writing, walking
and/or talking. Client did not contract for safety and was placed on eyeball, front of house,
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

and supportive status. A packet was printed out for her and placed near her bed. Client is
resting quietly with eyes closed at this time. Guardian was notified on 02/24/25 at 10:15pm.
Interim Action Narrative: Staff intervened and resident was assessed by the nurse.
Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing reviewed provider reported incident for licensing concerns.
Facility provided documentation for this provider reported incident. 2/26/2025,
documentation reviewed and uploaded. Resident was placed on eyeball and front of house.