521 Visit Compliance Report

Licensee: Youth Home, Inc.

Facility Number: 128

Licensee Address: 20400 COLONEL GLENN ROAD
LITTLE ROCK AR 72210

Licensing Specialist: Kendra Slade
Person In Charge: Mary Kelly
Record Visit Date: 9/23/2024
Home Visit Date: 9/23/2024

Purpose of Visit: Monitor Visit

Regulations Out of Compliance:

Regulations Needing Technical Assistance:

Regulation Not Applicable:

Regulations Not Correctable:

Narrative:

Time of Visit: 8:45 am to 11:15 am

www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year

S ARBRE AMBA FE
» DEPARTMENT OF

) \7 HUMAN
=a! SERVICES
Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot $140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.508.8910 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550

Page 1 of 3


Census:5

Program Coordinator received a phone call on 9/19/202 regarding some concerns that were mentioned
regarding a resident being placed on freeze at Chestnut House during camera review. Program Coordinator
reviewed camera footage with f the incident in question for 9/13/2024.

It was reported that the resident was placed on freeze for displaying unsafe behaviors. Camera footage was
reviewed from 10;21 am to 12:24 pm. The ratio was 2:1. Throughout the camera review, Program Coordinator
observed two (2) QBHPs and a nurse entering and leaving the area. Also, two (2) other residents were
observed entering and leaving the area.

Program Coordinator observed a female staff member sitting in a chair at the milieu and a male staff member
sitting in a chair by the doorway of the resident’s bedroom. Throughout the camera review, the resident could
be heard yelling, screaming, moaning, whining, and growling. The male staff member could be heard giving
the resident directives and providing countdowns.

The resident did not comply with the directives that were given and continued to yell and was heard using
racial slurs and cursing toward the male staff member. At 10:40 am, resident was observed standing in the
doorway with the male staff member sitting outside of the doorway. Resident was observed bumping his body
up against the door and making hand gestures at the staff member.

At 11:30 am, resident continued to whine and groan. Resident was observed pushing the chair that the staff
member wae in while ctanding in the danrwav Resident then started himning his hodv nn apainst the door

constantly stating, “Let me out.”

At 11:35 am, resident attempted to leave his bedroom. Staff member was observed blocking the resident with
is arm and guided the resident back into the bedroom. No aggression or force was observed by the staff
member. At 11:35 am, resident was observed knocking the staff member’s glasses off his face. The staff
member’s chair appeared to foll back on the outside of the resident’s bedroom doorway.

Resident was heard screaming and crying. Due to the resident being in his bedroom, Program Coordinator
could not observe why the resident was screaming or crying. The male staff member could be heard asking
the resident what was wrong. The female staff member was heard stating that the resident hit his hand.

Resident stopped screaming and could be heard banging on something in his room. A male staff member was
observed walking to the doorway of the resident’s bedroom with a piece of paper. It was reported it was the
resident’s classwork. The staff member handed the resident the paperwork and the resident threw the
paperwork out the door. The staff member picked up the paperwork and placed it on the bench outside the
resident’s bedroom door.

Resident started back yelling, screaming, and growling. At 11:56 am, resident was observed in the doorway
and started walking back and forth in his bedroom. At 12:03 pm, the nurse was observed talking with the staff
member before walking into the resident’s room.

www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 2 of 3


The nurse could be heard asking why the staff member was sitting at the doorway and the staff member
explained to the nurse that the resident was on freeze. The nurse was observed entering the resident's
bedroom. The nurse could be heard talking to the resident.

The nurse indicated not observing any marks on the resident. When asked why he was on freeze, the resident
denied knowing the reason. Program Coordinator was informed of some expectations and safety concerns for
freeze below:

A resident’s expectation on freeze indicated:
Must stay in assigned area
If necessary, resident may need to remain at the house

Potential Safety Concerns:
Threat to safety
Physical aggression
Arguing/oppositional/complaining behaviors

It was reported that resident was placed on freeze due to using racial slurs towards staff and peers. Resident
was not placed in a restraint during the camera review and was observed going around the staff member when
he chose to. The staff member was observed making sure that resident completed his time while on freeze.

Provider Comments:

CCL Staff Signature : Date: 9/23/2024
may
Provider Signature Date: 9/23/2024

“teary: Th, FA

www. arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 3 of 3