e
Pulaski County
Office of the Sheriff
Eric S. Higgins, Sheriff
2900 S. Woodrow Street, Little Rock, AR 72204
Tel: (501) 340-6600

Case P23-002392 Printed on March 17, 2023

Approved
Report Type Patrol
Primary Officer David Guarno
Investigator None
Records Technician
Reported At 02/24/23 11:46
Incident Date 02/24/23 11:46
Incident Code DIST : DISTURBANCE
Location 20400 COLONEL GLENN RD, LITTLE ROCK, AR 72210
2
Southwest
None
Ereferral County None

Disposition P- PENDING
Disposition Date/Time 02/24/23 12:45
Disposition Comments

Approved JDN2590 02/24/2023
Review for Gang Activity None

Primary Narrative By David Guarno, 02/24/23 13:08
BATTERY SECOND DEGREE-CERTAIN VICTIMS

On 2/24/2023, at 11:46 hours, | was dispatched to 20400 Colonel Glenn in reference to a disturbance where two
subjects had suffered injuries.

Upon arrival, | made contact with Youth Home staff, who advised me that (offender) had assaulted two
staff members and was currently cooling down in another room. | was advised by several staff members that the
victims were in separate rooms and needing medical attention, at which time | requested that MEMS unit come to our
location to treat injuries of both victims. After receiving a brief report of the altercation, | made contact with

and placed him into handcuffs. He was pat down for weapons and placed in the back of my patrol unit. At this time,
Sgt. Simmons stood by my patrol unit and observed the offender while | went inside to make contact with both victims
and Youth Home staff to gather further information.

| made contact with the first victim, Vincent Hunter. V. Hunter had a very large and noticeable knot above his left eye at
the time of our interview. V. Hunter stated that on 2/23/2023, around 11:30 hours, he and the other victim, Stephen
Webb, were tasked with restraining and placina him into a small room that they frequently utilize for
residents that need time to cool down. He advised that had been angry because he was not allowed to get a
library book and had been kicking the wall and causing a disturbance. V. Hunter advised that when he got

into the room, he attempted to retrain him by placing him up against the wall and facing away from him. V. Hunter
advised that while doing this, threw his own head backward, striking V. Hunter in the head and causing a
large knot to form above his left eye. V. Hunter advised that he and S. Webb continued to restrain until he
calmed down, at which time they contacted the Sheriff's office. Photos were taken of V. Hunter's injuries and uploaded
to this report.

| then made contact with S. Webb in regards to the aforementioned incident. S. Webb advised the same story as V.

Hunter and that he was attempting to restrain 1 and calm him down. S. Webb advised that while _. ..-__-..

was being held against the wall, that swung his arm around and grabbed at S. Webb's face in an attempt to

get away. S. Webb advised that when swung his arm around, that he pulled on S. Webb's left ear, pulling

the earrina out of his ear lobe. | observed a small laceration to S. Webb's left ear. He advised that he continued to

restrain until he was able to calm down and deputies arrived S. Webb advised that he has had dealings with
in the past and described him as a good but troubled kid. Photos were taken of S. Webb's injuries and

Case P23-002392 Page 1 of 2


uploaded to this report.

| spoke to management staff at the Youth Home and was advised that they already had a treatment plan in place and
were requesting that be transported to Children's Hospital so that he could be put into an acute care facility.
It was reiterated several times that they did not wish to be charged and taken to jail and were hopeful that
he could simply be taken to the hospital prior to being put into a different facility that would more adequately meet his
needs. was described by several individuals as a good kid but with a troubled past who was in need of
additional help that could not be provided in their facility.

| then made contact with . Post Miranda, advised that he did, in fact, throw his head back while
attempting to avoid being restrained, striking V. Hunter. He further advised that he inadvertently pulled S. Webb's
earring out of his ear when he was wildly throwing his arms around. Photographs were taken of and
uploaded to this report.

At this time, | spoke with Sgt. Nutt and briefed him on the situation. Due to Youth Home staff requesting he be taken for
additional medical treatment as opposed to incarceration and taking into account his current demeanor along with
details of his situation that led him to be placed into Youth Home, it was determined that he would be transported to
Children's Hospital via MEMS to be referred to an acute care facility.

was then taken out of handcuffs and MEMS unit 608 transported to Children's Hospital.

Both victims were given a report number and Youth Home staff advised that they were aware of the warrant process
should they later decide to pursue charges.

All parties were advised to contact PCSO with any further information.

Case P23-002392 Page 2 of 2