Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 018371
Date of Incident: 1/3/2024
Date Received by DCCECE: 1/4/2024
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for
client in our PRTF program and resides in Mabee House Incident report date/time:
01/03/24 5:26pm Location of Incident: Mabee House Incident Description: Threat of
Safety, Property Destruction, Injury to Staff/Authorized Visitor Staff Involved:
Events Leading: Client on pause at onset of shift.. Client verbally aggressive with staff and
observed in her bedroom. Client was informed that as long as she remains safe in her room
staff would not bother her. As staff disengaged, client threw a paper ball hitting staff in the
leg. She then started head banging and staff held their hand behind her head. Client started
hitting staff. Client behaviors unstable throughout shift; disrupting milieu and disrupting
safety counts while attempting to leave to dinner. Client resistant to verbal redirection, often
cursing at staff. Client went outside without permission attempting to go to dinner without
permission. At times client verbally refused to return into house. after some extensive
prompting client returned into the house. Client began throwing things in the milieu,
moving lockers, sitting on the lockers, and even grabbed the milieu phone and dialed 911
multiple times. Client moved to the front door, and took a chair and rammed it into the front
door multiple times. 5:26pm: Personal Restraint: Client took a chair and started ramming it
into a door when staff reached for her arm she dropped to the floor. Staff followed this
momentum and maintained safety in restraint. Staff encouraged client to stop behaviors and
encouraged deep breathing to help client calm. Client cursed at staff throughout. 5:41pm:
Personal Restraint: Client in personal restraint as staff attempted to encourage breath.
Client screamed at staff. 5:45pm: Personal Restraint End: Client calmed down and was let
out of the restraint but still continued to be very angry during this time. Patient Debriefing
date/time: 01/03/24 6:00pm: Client requested to speak with her therapist and her therapist
came to speak with her along with the CT on call. Nursing Assessment date/time: 01/03/24
5:41pm: At 345pm, the client was placed on freeze due to physical aggressiveness toward
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

staff. Client was placed on RR around 5 p.m. after fleeing out of the house while other
patient was leaving for dinner. The patient was throwing personal belongings at staff,
kicking chairs, and banging on doors. Due to a threat to patient safety, at 556 patient was
placed in personal restraint. While under personal restraint, the patient kicked one staff
member in the stomach and spit in the face of another. When the nurse asked the patient if
she was in discomfort or having problems with the restraint, she said, "I have pain right
above my ankles." When the nurse asked the patient if she needed anything to relieve her
discomfort, she replied, "Nothing works." Patient continues to be hostile and aggressive on
purpose. The patient repeated multiple times that she simply wants to go to acute care and
that she will do whatever it takes to get there. Due to staff injuries, the sheriff was notified
and a report was submitted. On-call MD was alerted of the occurrence, and an order for RR
and personal restraint was issued. On-call UM and CT have been alerted. The patient's
mother called and was informed of the patient actions, with no more inquiries or worries.
The patient originally refused to take the medication but subsequently agreed to do so. She
refused to take her melatonin. Guardian was notified on 01/03/24 at 6:53pm. Guardian did
call back on 01/04/24 at 9:00am to speak with nurse as well. Injuries to staff or client: pt
kicked a staff member in the stomach and spit in another staff's members face Pt stated that
she had pain above her ankles Follow-up to injuries: UM asked staff if they needed to call
MedCor or go the ER, staff declined and said that they were ok. Additional Comments: Due
to staff injuries, the sheriff was notified and a report was submitted. Report number:
Pt was later transported to acute due to this incident. was transferred to
BridgeWay for an acute stay on 01/03/24 and she remains there at this time.
Interim Action Narrative: Resident was placed in a restraint and admitted into acute care.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Program Coordinator reviewed provider reported incident for
licensing concerns. Program Coordinator will inquire if resident will be returning. 1/5/2024,
facility reported resident most likely would be returning to the facility.