Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 029281
Date of Incident: 4/23/2025
Date Received: 4/23/2025
Facility Name: Perimeter of the Ozarks
Facility Number: 237
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: What/When Happened?/Who did it? Does the person still have access
to the child?: AV is . She is currently living in Perimeter Behavioral of
the Ozarks. is listed as her PRFC. AO is unknown staff members at
Perimeter Behavioral of the Ozarks. She is at the
for SI attempt. She asked a nurse to take pictures of bruises on her left thigh. When asked
how she got the bruises she said it happens whenever they wake her up for breakfast. She
said staff at Perimeter Behavioral of the Ozarks hit her to wake her up for breakfast. She is
being discharged back to the facility because she cannot go home. Her social worker is
Interim Action Narrative:
Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: 4/25/2025- Licensing Specialist Jarred Parnell reviewed the case and
will contact the investigator for information regarding the staff reported in the case as well
as permission to reach out to the facility for an ICA. Licensing specialist Jarred Parnell
received a response from - "Unfortunately, the alleged victim
did not name any offenders, but said it was multiple staff. There were other concerns with
AV having access to batteries within 24 hours of a suicide attempt and supposedly being
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

able to eat one" Licensing specialist investigated the concern mentioned by
regarding batteries 5/7/2025 - Licensing Specialist
staffed the case with supervisor c. vardell. A visit will be conducted to interview residents
and inquire about morning routines and wake up times. 5/14/2025 - Licensing specialist
Jarred Parnell conducted a visit at the facility to interview residents for case 029281.
Licensing specialist interviewed 6 residents at the facility. was
interviewed at Perimeter of the Ozarks on 5/14/2025 - 10:45 AM. I introduced myself to
and told her I work for Licensing. I explained it is my job to go around to different
places and make sure kids are safe and staff is doing their job. I asked to tell me about
a typical morning at Perimeter of the Ozarks from the time she wakes up until about lunch.
stated the staff wakes them up and they go to hygiene. After hygiene they go to
breakfast, get their meds, and start school. At 10:30 they leave the classroom and have free
time until lunch. I asked to tell me what happens if you dont get up when the staff
turns the lights on? said they will make noise, or raise their voice. said one time
she saw a staff named shake someone to wake them up. I asked who that was?
said it was but she made a grievance on that. I asked to tell me more
about that. said it was and she was a new person and she didnt work here
very long. I asked if she ever saw shake or put hands on anyone else to wake
them up, said no. I asked if she has a roommate right now. said yes,
. I asked who was her roommate before , said I asked
if she ever saw sleep in? said yes. I asked how did the staff wake her up?
said they used a loud speaker to play music, or take blankets, but they dont do that
alot because the staff need line of sight of other staff to enter their bedrooms. I asked
if she ever staff she ever saw anyone shake awake when she slept in. said no. I
asked if there was anything else she wanted to talk about? stated no and the
interview was terminated. was interviewed at Perimeter of the
Ozarks on 5/14/2025 - 11:03 AM I introduced myself to and told her I work for
Licensing and that i go around to different facilities to make sure kids are safe. I let
know i wanted to speak with her about the morning time from wake up time to lunch.
said they wake up at 7:00AM and then go to hygiene, breakfast, med pass and then class
starts around 9:00 AM. Lunch starts around 12:00 PM. I asked to tell me how the staff
wakes them up at 7:00 AM. said they just tell you to wake up. I asked to tell me
what happens if you sleep in? said they call the lead over and you can get written up
and restricted to the unit for the day. stated she is usually awake before 7:00 AM and
has not had to be written up for sleeping in. I asked if there was ever a time she did
sleep in and had to be woken up. said no, she is always up before the staff tell them
and does not sleep in. I asked to tell me about a time when someone else on the unit
was sleeping in and wouldn't get up when staff told them. said they usually just tell
them to get up louder, but she doesnt really pay attention to other residents when its wake
up time. I asked if staff come into the room to wake you up. said no, the staff has
to have line of sight with other staff so they usually just stand in the door way. I thanked
for talking to me and terminated the interview. was
interviewed at Perimeter of the Ozarks on 5/14/2025 - 11:17 AM I introduced myself to
and told her I work for Licensing and that I go around to different facilities to make

sure kids are safe. I told i wanted to know about her mornings from the time
everyone wakes up until lunch time. said they wake up at 7:00AM and do hygiene,
then go to breakfast, meds, and school. After school they go to lunch and then free time,
and some days they go outside. I asked to tell me how do the staff you up at 7:00
AM. said they usually just knock gently on the door and say get up. I asked
what happens if you sleep in? said they just speak louder or yell to get up. I asked
when the staff wake you up are they nice? said yes, they are very gentle in the
morning. I asked to tell me about a time when someone else wanted to sleep in and
staff woke them up. said got restricted to unit for not waking up but it was a
long time ago. I asked if she had anything else she wanted to tell me. said no
and I terminated the interview. was interviewed at Perimeter
of the Ozarks on 5/14/2025 - 11:40 AM I introduced myself to and told her I work
for Licensing and that i go around to different facilities to make sure staff are doing their
jobs and that kids are safe and happy in facilities. I asked to tell me about morning
times and to walk me through a typical day from the time she wakes up until lunch.
said they wake up and then go to breakfast, get meds, and go to school. I asked to
tell me how they wake you up in the morning. said they turn the lights on and them
to get up. I asked what happens if you sleep in. said you get written up. I
asked to tell me more about that. said they have a points system. You get
points for doing good and if you get written up you lose points. I asked if she had
ever slept in. said yes. I asked if the staff are nice in the morning during
wake up. said yes they are nice. I thank for speaking with me and
terminated the interview. was interviewed at Perimeter of the
Ozarks on 5/14/2025 - 12:02 PM I introduced myself to and told her i work for
Licensing and its my job to go around and make sure kids are safe in facilities like this. I
told i would like her to tell me about her morning time from waking up until lunch.
said they wake up around 7:30 AM and go to Breakfast. Then they get meds, go to
school and outside. After outside they go to lunch. I asked to tell me how the staff
wakes her up in the morning. said they turn the lights on. I asked to tell me
what happens if you don't get out of bed in the morning when they tell you. said they
will restrain you. I asked to tell me more about that. said they will come and
escort you out of the room if you don't get up. I asked if she ever had ever been
escorted out when she didn't get up? said no but she saw another resident get
shaken awake by a staff. I asked if she knew who the staff was? said she didn't
remember. said she doesn't sleep in and is usually up when they wake everyone up
because they got her meds correct. I asked if she had anything else to tell me?
said no and the interview was terminated. was interviewed at
Perimeter of the Ozarks on 5/14/2025 - 12:26 PM I introduced myself to and told her
i work for Licensing and i go around to different facilities and make sure staff are doing
their jobs and kids are safe. I asled to tell me about the morning time starting with
wake up until lunch. said wake up is at 7:00 AM. At 7:30 AM they go to breakfast.
Class starts at 8:30 and they go to school. They do school from 9:00 am to 11:00 am and then
go outside at 11:30 AM. I asked to tell how they wake her up in the morning.
said they tell you to wake up. I asked what happens if you dont get up when they tell

you. said they will tell you to wake up but a little more stern. I asked if the staff is
nice in the morning when they are doing wake up? said yes. I asked if she had
anything else she wanted to tell. said no and the interview was terminated. Licensing
specialist spoke with 2 staff in regards to case 029281. I spoke with regarding
wake up routines, staff duties and work policy for waking up residents. I spoke with
about resident and the events leading up to going to the hospital. I obtained
roommate information for the alleged victim and injury documentation. When staff wake up
residents if a staff has to enter the room, they are to call over another staff to maintain line of
sight. This is a precaution for both the residents and the staff. I spoke with
in regards to injuries obtained during restraints, chemical restraints and information
regarding the chemical restraint administered before the resident discharged to the hospital.
administered the chemical restraint to in the thigh, states this can lead to
bruising if the muscle is tense at the time of the administration. It was not known if had
a bruise from the chemical restraint because the resident left for the hospital after the
chemical restraint was administered. Based on the information obtained in the interviews
with staff and residents, the facility was found to be in compliance with standard 905.4.G.
The complaint is UNFOUNDED by licensing. 5/16/2025 - 521 inspection report sent to
facility. Signed copy returned and uploaded to ELS. Licensing interviewed residents and
staff members. The case has been closed as unfounded by licensing. Approved by Program
Coordinator. Case complete.