Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 9/15/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: Delta Family Health and Fitness for Children
Facility Name: Delta Family Health and Fitness for Children
Facility Number: 172
Incident Type: Dual
Report Description: AV currently resides at Delta Family Center; on 9/15/23
she was placed in a restraint by AO . AV said the AO came into the classroom,
told her he was tired of her and was going to punch her in the face. AV said grabbed her by
the arm to take her to a timeout, but she did not want to go with him because he said he was
going to punch her; she said he pulled her out of her chair, slammed her into two desks and
then onto the ground. AV said after she was released from the hold and she had showered,
she noticed a bruise on the inside of her right thigh, she attempted to show the nurse and
she told her she could not do anything about it.
Interim Action Narrative: Staff will be suspended pending investigation. Email
received from Becky Brooks of Delta 9/20/23: Staff has been suspended from
DFC until an investigative determination is made in regards to
reference
Maltreatment Narrative: AV currently resides at Delta Family Center; on
9/15/23 she was placed in a restraint by AO . AV said the AO came into the
classroom, told her he was tired of her and was going to punch her in the face. AV said
grabbed her by the arm to take her to a timeout, but she did not want to go with him
because he said he was going to punch her; she said he pulled her out of her chair, slammed
her into two desks and then onto the ground. AV said after she was released from the hold
and she had showered, she noticed a bruise on the inside of her right thigh, she attempted
to show the nurse and she told her she could not do anything about it. Ref#
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

Licensing Narrative: Licensing received complaint 9/19/23 as follows: AV
currently resides at Delta Family Center; on 9/15/23 she was placed in a restraint by AO
. AV said the AO came into the classroom, told her he was tired of her and was
going to punch her in the face. AV said grabbed her by the arm to take her to a timeout, but
she did not want to go with him because he said he was going to punch her; she said he
pulled her out of her chair, slammed her into two desks and then onto the ground. AV said
after she was released from the hold and she had showered, she noticed a bruise on the
inside of her right thigh, she attempted to show the nurse and she told her she could not do
anything about it. Facility visited 9/18/23 for unrelated incident. CACD Investigator Staci
Tumey was interviewing client when she disclosed this information. Licensing specialist
sat in for interview. A bruise was noted on the right inner thigh of client stated that
this was from " ". stated that staff stated to her "I'm tired of you...I'll
punch you in your face...this is not a threat but a promise". stated that staff pulled
her out of her seat and threw her on the ground. stated this happened in " "
classroom on 9/15/23 between 2:30PM and 3:30PM. stated that staff " " was
there. Facility visited 9/20/23 in response to complaint from client that staff
caused a bruise on leg during a restraint that occurred in a classroom on 9/15/23.
Video reviewed from 9/15/23. No audio. Client is seen sitting in a chair inside a 1/2
kiosk pushed against a wall. Staff is seen approaching the desk is sitting in. Staff
is standing less than a foot from the desk. continues to remain seated. is not
seen harming herself, someone else, or property. Physical contact is made between staff
and while is sitting down. Camera angle and lighting does not yield who made
physical contact first. Staff takes out of her seat, over a desk that falls over and to
the ground for a hold. Additional staff are seen assisting with the hold. seems to calm
down without further incident. Licensing present for staff interview by
CACD Investigator Staci Tumey. Staff stated that asked for a time out but was
not allowed one. At this time staff stated she was leaving the classroom, and is
seen on camera leaving the room before staff is seen entering the room. Staff
stated that upon arriving to the classroom, staff made a threatening
statement to client referencing being quiet. Then staff asked to go to time
out. stated she did not want to go to time out with staff At this time staff physical
confrontation between staff and ensued, leading to a desk falling over and ending
with a restraint on client Facility cited 905.4g: The following disciplinary actions shall
not be used: Physical injury or threat of bodily harm. 905.10, for initiating a physical restraint
while the client was not a danger to herself, others or property. Received email from Becky
Brooks of Delta 9/20/23: Staff has been suspended from DFC until an
investigative determination is made in regards to reference
Received email 11/10/23 that maltreatment report was founded. Email sent to facility
11/13/23 to ascertain employment status of staff . Misty Winters of Delta
emailed that staff remains on suspension as of 11/13/23 pending maltreatment
findings.

Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.508.8910 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
521 Visit Compliance Report
Licensee: Delta Family Health and Fitness for Children
Facility Number: 172
Licensee Address: 815 EAST SAINT LOUIS STREET
HAMBURG AR 71646
Licensing Specialist: Clayton DeBoer
Person In Charge:
Record Visit Date: 9/20/2023
Home Visit Date: 9/20/2023
Purpose of Visit: Complaint Visit
Regulations Out of Compliance:
Regulation Number: 9.905.4.g
Regulation Description: The following actions shall not be used, including as discipline:
Finding Description: Client sustained injury from physical confrontation with staff
Action Due Date:
Action Due Description:
Comply Date:
Sub-Regulation Level 1 Description: Physical injury or threat of bodily harm;
Action Due Description:
Regulation Number: 9.905.10
Regulation Description: Physical restraint shall be initiated only by staff trained by a certified instructor in a
nationally recognized curriculum, and only to prevent injury to the child, other people or property, and shall not be
initiated solely as a form of discipline. The agency shall maintain documentation that staff is deemed competent in
physical restraint.
Finding Description: Staff initiated a restraint on client without client being a threat to herself,
others or property.
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 1 of 3

Action Due Date:
Action Due Description:
Comply Date:
Action Due Description:
Regulations Needing Technical Assistance:
Regulation Not Applicable:
Regulations Not Correctable:
Narrative:
Facility visited 9/20/23 in response to complaint from client that staff caused a bruise on leg during a
restraint that occurred in a classroom on 9/15/23. Video reviewed from 9/15/23. No audio. Client is seen sitting in a chair
inside a 1/2 kiosk pushed against a wall. Staff is seen approaching the desk is sitting in. Staff is standing
less than a foot from the desk. continues to remain seated. is not seen harming herself, someone else, or property.
Physical contact is made between staff and while is sitting down. Camera angle and lighting does not yield who
made physical contact first. Staff takes out of her seat, over a desk that falls over and to the ground for a hold.
Additional staff are seen assisting with the hold. seems to calm down without further incident.
Licensing present for staff interview by CACD Investigator Staci Tumey. Staff stated that
asked for a time out but was not allowed one. At this time staff stated she was leaving the classroom and is seen on
camera leaving the room before staff is seen entering the room. Staff stated that upon arriving to the
classroom, staff made a threatening statement to client referencing being quiet. Then staff asked to
go to time out. stated she did not want to go to time out with staff At this time staff physical confrontation between
staff and ensued, leading to a desk falling over and ending with a restraint on client Facility cited 905.4g: The
following disciplinary actions shall not be used: Physical injury or threat of bodily harm. 905.10, for initiating a physical
restraint while the client was not a danger to herself, others or property.
Provider Comments:
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 2 of 3

CCL Staff Signature : Date: 11/27/2023
Provider Signature : Date: 11/27/2023
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year Page 3 of 3