Placement and Residential Licensing Unit
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
R
Notice of Serious Incident
Case Number: 026715
Date of Incident: 1/6/2025
Date Received: 1/10/2025
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Incident Report for Private
placement client in our PRTF program and resides in Incident Report
date/time: 01/06/25 3:09pm Location of Incident: Incident Description:
Aggressive to Adults Staff Involved: Dejuan Williams, Ben Malone, Anthony White,
Jonathan Pulliam, Valerie Alvarez Events Leading: Client became upset due to remaining
on run risk although he was taken off house restriction. Client stated that his mother was
bringing him new shoes and he would not be able to wear them on run risk. Client became
more upset due to his peers coming in from school being loud. Client went in his room
slamming and hitting objects, so the staff opened his door, and he slammed it hitting staff
with the door. 3:09pm-Personal Restraint: Client was placed into a restraint and was
escorted to the seclusion area. Client is yelling and cursing at staff as staff continue trying to
talk to him. 3:15pm-Personal Restraint End: Client begins to struggle and attempts to kick
staff. Client continues to yell, curse and threaten staff as they continue trying to talk with
him and ask him what he needs. Client begins to stop struggling and is able to be released
from the personal restraint. 3:16pm-Unlocked Seclusion: Client is in unlocked seclusion
where staff begin talking with him about what happened and how they much rather talk
with him like this. Client stated that no facility can hold him. Client remains calm while
talking with staff. Client is offered bathroom and water which he declines. 3:20pm-Unlocked
Seclusion End: After contacting for safety, the client was able to be released from the
personal restraint. Client was able to return to his area. 3:50pm-Other/None: After the client
was de-escalated and walked out of the seclusion room, approx. 20 mins later, the client
started to self-harm. He was redirected several times about this matter, which he eventually
stopped, and was seen by the nurse after several minutes of asking. Patient Debriefing
date/time: 01/06/25 3:45pm: Staff and talked about why he became upset and trying to
use better coping skills like asking staff to talk with him. Nursing Assessment 1 date/time:
01/06/25 3:21pm: was observed processing with team members. He appeared
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

annoyed with information team members relayed as he stood with stooped posture and
rolling his eyes. He became giddy and laughing when his posture and eye rolls were
addressed. Calm and cooperative during this time. He admits he became angry and began
throwing things in his room when he learned he is still on run risk. He also admits he
became overstimulated when the boys returned to chestnut house and admits to slamming
the door on a team member. AAOx4. No signs of respiratory distress. No apparent physical
markings, erythema, bruising, abrasions, scratches, or edema. He appeared avoidant and
rushed past this nurse in attempt to return to his room. When asked to assess his arms, he
would flash them quickly then walk off. Skin intact. Good circulation. Hygiene appears to
be lacking today as his shirt appears soiled and some sort of debris/residue that could be
rubbed off easily noted to his arm. Active ROM to all extremities. Gait is steady. Denies any
pain, soreness, or injuries from intervention. Gait is steady. He denies he nor staff could
have intervened differently in order to prevent the intervention. This nurse explored coping
skills with . With assistance, he was able to identify listening to music, pacing, and
the comfort room when upset, irritated, and/or overwhelmed. This nurse then explained
how one transitions from house restriction, run risk, to no safety precautions in which he
appeared receptive. He then began laughing and explained he just realized this nurse is
shorten in height than him. Pt placed on freeze for physical aggression. Nursing
Assessment 2 date/time: 01/06/25 8:51pm: At 7:52 PM, the nurse received an order from the
on-call provider for the patient to be admitted to an . Consent for the
admission was obtained from the patient's parent at 8:05 PM. Police arrived at 8:20 PM,
followed by at 8:41 PM. The patient was compliant with both police and
workers. He had his belongings with him and was in no physical distress upon departure.
The patient left the facility at 8:51 PM via for acute placement Guardian was notified
on 01/06/25 at 4:35pm with the following notes: Guardian voiced that while on the phone
with last night, he was upset and voiced that he did not want to be at YH. She
voiced that he was making threats to harm hurt himself and explained he doesn't
understand why they (his parents) can't bring him home and give him chance. He
reportedly explained to them (his parents) on the phone last night that he has learned his
lesson and ready to return home. Guardian, "he is obviously still making demands" and is
hopeful he will begin working on this treatment. APRN notified of guardian's concern and
threats on their call last night. Order for Eyeball and front of house safety
precaution received. This nurse then learned was at chestnut house after breaking
the plastic off the light cover and threatened to stab team members. This nurse found
packing his items to move rooms. APRN gave order to administer to
prevent further incident. stated, "I'm not taking shit. I'm not even going to take my
meds". Guardian was also contacted at 8:05pm on 01/06/25 with the following notes: At
7:52 PM, the nurse received an order from the on-call provider for the patient to be admitted
to an . Consent for the admission was obtained from the patient's parent at
8:05 PM. Police arrived at 8:20 PM, followed by at 8:41 PM. The patient departed the
facility at 8:51 PM via for .

Interim Action Narrative: Resident was placed in a restraint/seclusion for safety, assessed
by the nurse, and ordered for .
Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing informed of provider reported incident and documentation
provided. 1/10/2024, licensing reviewed provider reported incident for licensing concerns.
Provided documentation uploaded. Licensing inquired if resident would return to the
facility after . Resident will return to the facility after .