Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203‐1437
P: 501.682.8590 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
Notice of Serious Incident
Date of Incident: 1/16/2023
Date Received by DCCECE: 1/17/2023
Facility Name: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Facility Type: Residential
Incident Type: Licensing
Report Description: Client: DOB: Private Placement Date of
Incident: 1/16/23 Time: 8:30 PM Staff involved: Cedric Payne - Personal Restraint,
Reporting, Observed Darryel Sanders - Personal Restraint, Seclusion, Observed Jeremy
Burks - Milieu Valerie Alvarez - Nurse Events Leading: Client began to severe limit test
shortly after dinner, Client would not stay in his authorized area, Client began to instigate
his peers and was asked to take a timeout and use his coping skills in the comfort room,
Client then went to the comfort room where his limit testing continued and he began
slamming doors and turning lights on and off , Client eventually decided to leave the
comfort room and go back to his assigned area where he was not compliant and continued
to be oppositional, Client was then asked again after to go back to the comfort and stay until
he was not escalated anymore, Client walked around the milieu instigating peers and
making inappropriate noises , Client was walked to the comfort for a a second time, Client
began to make comments that he was going to hurt someone then laugh and say he was just
joking, Client was not ready to talk and given his squeeze ball to help deescalate him and
help him calm down, Client again walked out the comfort room and was directed to go to
his room and calm down , Client still was not compliant and continued to test limits as he
tested personal space boundaries with staff and used profanity towards staff saying Fuck
You , Client was then placed on freeze , Client told staff that since he was placed on freeze
he was not going to sleep and began more limit testing and oppositional behavior, Client
would not go to this room and again began to go to his peers room calling them names and
attempting to instigate even more, Client was given more directives from staff that he was
going to the seclusion room , Client advised staff that he did not want to be restrained and
would walk to the seclusion room on his own, Intervention Narratives: 8:30 Locked
Seclusion: Due to client being a threat to safety and excessive rule violation he was walked
We Care. We Act. We Change Lives.
humanservices.arkansas.gov

to the seclusion room 8:39 Locked Seclusion End: Client was showing threats of self harm
placing his t-shirt around his neck attempting to choke himself, Staff contacted medical
staff 8:40 Personal Restraint: Client t-shirt was removed for his safety 8:41 Personal Restraint
End: Client was released from personal restraint after t-shirt was removed from client 8:42
PM Locked Seclusion: Client was placed back in locked seclusion and asked to continue to
use his coping skills 8:44 PM Lockes Seclusion End: Client pants were removed for his
safety after threatening to choke himself 8:45 PM Personal Restraint: Client was placed in a
personal restraint to removed his pants and socks for his safety 8:47 PM Personal Restraint
End: Client was released from personal restraint after client pants and socks were removed
8:48 PM Locked Seclusion: Client was placed back in locked seclusion to continue to use
his coping skills and not become a threat himself 9:06 PM Locked Seclusion End: Client
agreed to take a prn to help him calm down 9:06 PM Chemical Restraint: Client was given a
prn by the nurse to help client calm down 9:07 PM Unlocked Seclusion: After receiving a
prn client began to deescalate and transition to unlocked seclusion and began to debrief
9:22 PM Unlocked Seclusion End: Client debriefed with staff and contracted for safety,
Client was upset that he wanted to go outside but would have to give up his video game
time and was not able to do both activities 9:18 PM Nursing Face-to-Face Assessment:
09:18pm: was observed in unlocked seclusion, processing and debriefing with team
member. Fairly calm and cooperative at this time. AAOx3. Denies any SI or thoughts of self-
harm. Stated "Oh, I only did that to get attention". He was playful during this time as he
would make remarks then state "Oh, I'm just kidding". VS: 98/78, HR 82. Respiratory rate
is 18 breaths/minute, unlabored, regular. No retractions, accessory muscle use, or nasal
flaring. No signs of respiratory distress. No signs of physical markings around neck, neck
edema, ptosis, nausea, vomiting, hoarseness, coughing, or difficulty swallowing. Clear,
calm, coherent speech. Denies any pain, soreness, or injuries. No apparent physical
markings, erythema, bruising, or abrasions noted. Active and passive ROM to all
extremities. 9:23 PM Nursing Face-to-Face Assessment: anoa was released from unlocked
seclusion at 09:22pm. He started to put his clothes back on and voiced being tired, ready to
go to bed. He was notified he will be placed on close observation as a safety measure due to
attempted strangulations with clothes. He was receptive towards this, although made
sarcastic statements stating "I don't care about being on close observations. I like being on
close observations. This won't effect my level. I won't apply for a level for 3 years". He then
went to his room for the evening without further incident. 9:22 PM Patient Debriefing:
Client was upset that he was not able to go outside and participate in outside activity time ,
Client was playing video games for his free time and did want not lose his turn playing video
games to go outside for free time Staff involved in debriefing - Darryel Sanders, Cedric
Payne, Valerie Alvarez Psychiatrist On Call Contacted 1/16/23 at 8:30 PM Nurse Contacted
- Valerie Alvarez at 8:34 PM Clinical Therapist On call Contacted - Peggy Kelly, Chief
Clinical Officer at 8:53 PM Unit Manager On Call Contacted - Aquarius Walker at 8:36 PM
Guardian Contacted at 9:48 PM

Interim Action Narrative: Resident was taken to the comfort room for a timeout and use his
coping skills. He was placed in seclusion due to being a threat to safety and excessive rule
violation. Resident was assessed by nursing, debrief, and put his clothes back on.
Maltreatment Narrative:
Licensing Narrative: Licensing Specialist will inquire about camera footage and restraint
documentation. 1/18/2023, Licensing Specialist reviewed camera footage.

Division of Child Care & Early Childhood Education
P.O. Box 1437, Slot S140, Little Rock, AR 72203-1437
P: 501.508.8910 F: 501.683.6060 TDD: 501.682.1550
521 Visit Compliance Report
Licensee: Youth Home, Inc.
Facility Number: 128
Licensee Address: 20400 COLONEL GLENN ROAD
LITTLE ROCK AR 72210
Licensing Specialist: Kendra Rice
Person In Charge: Robbie Lagrone
Record Visit Date: 1/18/2023
Home Visit Date: 1/18/2023
Purpose of Visit: Self Report Visit
Regulations Out of Compliance:
Regulations Needing Technical Assistance:
Regulations Not Correctable:
Narrative:
Time of visit: 9:15 am to 1:00 pm
Census: 34
Licensing Specialist reviewed camera footage of a Provider Reported Incident on 1/16/2023.
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year
Page 1 of 2

Licensing Specialist observed resident and staff walking to the seclusion room, ratio 2:1. Resident was
encouraged to take a time out. The other residents were sitting in the milieu watching television. At 20:00,
resident was observed talking with staff and throwing a ball (coping skill) against a wall. At 20:23, Licensing
Specialist observed resident walk out of the seclusion room and back into the seclusion room. Resident was
observed walking out of the seclusion room and into the milieu. Resident stood by the dorm area and walked
into the game room and bounced his ball on the floor and off the walls.
Licensing Specialist heard staff trying to get resident to comply with given directions. Resident’s ball was
taken by staff. At 20:30, resident went into his bedroom and staff followed, ratio 2:1. Resident was walked to
the seclusion room for not following directions. Licensing Specialist heard staff explaining to resident why he
was going to the seclusion rom. Once in the seclusion room, resident was observed covering his ears while
staff was talking to him standing against a wall.
At 20:36, Licensing Specialist observed resident kicking the door. At 20:39, resident removed his shirt and
tied the shirt around his neck. Staff member called for another staff member and resident put his shirt back on
and started jumping up and down. Licensing Specialist observed staff entering the seclusion to remove
resident’s shirt. Staff was heard explaining to the resident why his shirt was being removed. Resident was
observed trying to leave the seclusion room.
At 20:41, resident took off his pants and placed his pants around his neck. Staff called for another staff
member. Licensing Specialist heard resident laughing while staff removed his pants and socks. Once pants
were removed, staff closed the door and continued to encourage resident to comply. At 20:48, resident was
observed banging on the window.
The nurse was observed entering the area by the seclusion room. Licensing Specialist heard resident telling
the nurse he was not going to talk to her. Nursed continued to talk with resident and asked if he needed
anything. Resident agreed to PRN medication. At 20:57, Licensing Specialist observed resident adjust his
underwear and hit himself on the buttocks. At 21:06, Licensing Specialist observed the nurse give resident
PRN medication and debrief with him. Resident was able to debrief with staff, he assessed by the nurse, and
was given back his clothes to put on.
Licensing Specialist and Mr. Pulliam (PRTF Lead Unit Manager) discussed the incident. Mr. Pulliam
informed Licensing Specialist of the different techniques that were used with resident in this incident.
Licensing Specialist did not observe any licensing concerns during review of camera footage.
www.arkansas.gov/dhs
Serving more than one million Arkansans each year
Page 2 of 2