This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 05/2025)
New Focus Academy dba New Focus
Provider Name: Facility ID: (F22-93529) Phone Number: (801) 301-2447 Notes
West
Site Name or 233 S 200 W
Email Address: john@newfocusacademy.com
Address: Heber City, UT, 84032
Approved # of Present
12 8
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Any active rule variances
Not Assesssed during Quarterly Inpsections None in place
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
Not Assesssed during Quarterly Inpsections staff
Any license restrictions or conditions Staff Interviews
None in place One staff interview completed.
Any needed rule variances Clients Interviews
None needed One staff interview completed.
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: 2nd Unannounced Date: 6.5.25 Time Started On-site: 10:00 AM Time Ended On-site: 2:30 AM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: John Webb
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Rob Jones OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained
noncompliance items (if any).