This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 05/2025)
Provider Name: Elements Wilderness Program Facility ID: F22-93413 Phone Number: (801)712-3372 Notes
karen@elementswilderness.com;
Site Name or 1190 N Mohrland Rd
Email Address: sarah@elementsprograms.com;
Address: Huntington, UT, 84528
doc@elementsprograms.com
Approved # of Present
50 26
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Not assessed during quaterly inspections Any active rule variances None in place.
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected Not assessed during quaterly inspections
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions Noen in place. Staff Interviews One staff interview completed
Any needed rule variances None Needed Clients Interviews Three clients interviewed
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by
management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Unannounced Date: 6.9.25 Time Started On-site: 10:00 Time Ended On-site: 3:30 AM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Bill Wimberg
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Rob Jones OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained
noncompliance items (if any).