This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 01/2024)
Provider Name: Wildflower Mountain Ranch Facility ID: Phone Number: Notes
F22-93940 (801) 835-9359
Residential Treatment Center
for Girls veronica_bratcher@wildflowermountainra
Site Name or 2841 Nordic Valley Dr nch.org;
Email Address:
Address: Huntsville, UT, 84317 wildflowerresidentialtreatment@outlook.
com
Approved # of Present
7 4
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Quarterly Any active rule variances No active rule variances.
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions No current restrictions. Staff Interviews
Any needed rule variances Clients Interviews
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: 3rd Unannounced Date: 10/29/2024 Time Started On-site: 12:00 PM Time Ended On-site: 12:30 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 1 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Bridget Kilgrow/Jeffrey Kilgrow/Veronica Bratcher
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Mary Bokinskie OL Staff Observing Inspection:
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
The Licensor explained
Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the Jeffrey Kilgore 10.29.2024
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.