This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 05/2025)
Provider Name: Alpine Academy / Utah Youth Village Facility ID: F22-93262 Phone Number: 801-272-9980 Notes
aalvey@alpineacademy.org;
Site Name or
Mt. Birch (AA-MB) 1369 Erda Way Tooele, Utah 84074 Email Address: licensing@alpineacademy.org;
Address: Currently, there are no students living in the
lbryant@alpineacademy.org
Mt. Birch Home
Approved # of Present
11 0
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Not reviewed during quarterly inspections x Any active rule variances
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected Not reviewed during quarterly inspections x
staff
x Any license restrictions or conditions None x Staff Interviews One staff interviewed
x Any needed rule variances None x Clients Interviews Three students interviewed
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: 3rd Unannounced Date: 5/20/2025 Time Started On-site: 11:00 AM Time Ended On-site: 2:30 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection:
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Heather Holbrook OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained
x
noncompliance items (if any).