This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 05/2025)
Provider Name: Cascade Academy Facility ID: (F22-93281) Phone Number: Notes
bgerrard@cascadeacademy.com;
Site Name or 430 W 200 N
Email Address: bschuler@cascadeacademy.com;
Address: Midway, UT, 84049
proe@cascadeacademy.com
Approved # of Present
26 20
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Not assessed during quarterly inspections. Any active rule variances
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected Not assessed during quarterly inspections.
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions None in place. Staff Interviews One staff interviewed
Any needed rule variances (801) 655-3886 Clients Interviews Three clients interviewed.
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Unannounced Date: 6.2.25 Time Started On-site: 11:00 AM Time Ended On-site: 2:30 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Corbin Burrows
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Rob Jones OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained
noncompliance items (if any).