This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 02/2025)
Provider Name: CERTS Facility ID: F23-99864 Phone Number: 801-268-9300 Notes
Site Name or
LaEuropa Academy 1135 East Vine Street Murray, Utah 84121 Email Address:
Address: akesler@laeuropa.com; hroth@laeuropa.
com, dnichols@laeuropa.com
Approved # of Present
36 19
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS x Any active rule variances None
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected x
staff
x Any license restrictions or conditions None x Staff Interviews One staff interview compelted
x Any needed rule variances None x Clients Interviews Three Clients interviewed
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Unannounced Date: 4/29/2025 Time Started On-site: 10:45 AM Time Ended On-site: 12:45 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 1 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Amanda Kesler
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Heather Holbrook OL Staff Observing Inspection:
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
The Licensor explained
x Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the Amanda Kesler
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.