This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 01/2024)
Provider Name: Facility ID: Phone Number: Notes
Heitage School Inc, Elevate (F25-117277) (801) 226-4600
chester.powelson@heritagertc.org;
Site Name or kevin.curtis@heritagertc.org;
Address: Email Address: shelby.hughes@heritagertc.org
5600 N Heritage School Dr, Unit A, C, B, D, Provo, UT, 84604
Approved 88 # of Present
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Any active rule variances N/A
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions Staff Interviews
Any needed rule variances Clients Interviews
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by
management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
2:35:00 PM Time is done
Inspection Type: Pre-License Date: 1/9/2025 Time Started On-site: 10:00 AM Time Ended On-site: for 3 programs two are
pre-inspections.
Number of Non Compliant Items: Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection:
Chester Powelson
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the Chester Powelson
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.