This tool is a preliminary inspection
Inspection Checklist checklist designed to ensure consistency
across all inspections. (Revised Jan 2026)
Catalyst Residential Treatment Center
Provider Name: Facility ID: F22-93247 Phone Number: (385) 220-4677 Notes
dba Red House
Site Name or 970 S 1025 W seth@catalystrtc.com; This facility is under renovations and clients
Address: Brigham City, UT, 84302 Email Address: adam@catalystrtc.com; have not resided at this location in over a
kaylee@catalystrtc.com year. The provider has informed licensing it
is not ready and clients will not be at the
Approved 24 # of Present 0 site in the near future.
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
There are no staff currently working at this
Current backgrounds in DACS Any active rule variances None
facility.
There are no staff currently working at this Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
facility. staff
There are no staff or clients currently at this
Any license restrictions or conditions None Staff Interviews
facility.
There are no staff or clients currently at this
Any needed rule variances None Clients Interviews
facility.
Inspection Information:
- These are initial observations and do not constitute a final inspection report. The Licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed if requested. An official inspection
report will be sent to you once this inspection has been approved by OL management.
Inspection Type: Announced Annual Date: 2/10/2026 Time Started On-site: 10:30 AM Time Ended On-site: 3:15 PM
Number of Items Under Review: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Seth Geisler
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Josilyn Bertrand, Mary Bokinskie, Rob Jones OL Staff Observing Inspection: