This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 02/2025)
Wildflower Mountain Ranch Residential
Provider Name: Facility ID: F24-111725 Phone Number: (801) 835-9359 Notes
Treatment Center for Girls
veronica_bratcher@wildflowermounta
Site Name or 5708 West 4200 South inranch.org,
Email Address:
Address: Hooper, UT, 84315 wildflowerresidentialtreatment@outlo
ok.com
Approved # of Present
4 0
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Any active rule variances No current rule variances
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions Staff Interviews Staff work at both licensed locations.
Any needed rule variances No needed rule variances Clients Interviews No current clients at this location.
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Announced Date: 3/11/2025 Time Started On-site: 9:30 AM Time Ended On-site: 3:00 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 12 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Bridget Kilgrow, Veronica Kasprzak-Bratcher
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Mary Bokinskie, Josilyn Bertrand OL Staff Observing Inspection:
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
The Licensor explained
Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.
Bridget Kilgrow 03/11/2025