This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 02/2025)
Provider Name: Facility ID: Phone Number: Notes
Heritage Schools Inc, Spark F22-93487 (801) 226-4600
chester.powelson@heritagertc.org;
Site Name or kevin.curtis@heritagertc.org;
Email Address: shelby.hughes@heritagertc.org
Address:
5600 N Heritage School Dr Provo, UT, 84604
Approved # of Present
178 39
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
x Current backgrounds in DACS X Any active rule variances None
Not assessed during quarterly inspection
X Current staff roster collected X Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Not assessed during quarterly inspection staff
X Any license restrictions or conditions x Staff Interviews 3 staff
No conditions or restrictions in place
X Any needed rule variances x Clients Interviews 2 clients
No variances needed
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by
management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Unannounced Date: 4/7/2025 Time Started On-site: 10:00 AM Time Ended On-site: Time is for 3 programs.
12:45 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection:
Cynthia A Gagon
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Heather Guanajuato OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
none Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.
Cynthia A Gagon