This inspection checklist is the tool OL 
RResidentiall Treatmentt Inspectionn Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency 
for every inspection. (Revised 03/2023)
Provider Name: RedCliffAscentdbaThreePeaksAscent Facility ID: F22-94380 Phone Number:  Notes
21185 N Pine Valley Rd. Beryl, UT
Site Name or 
Email Address:
Address:
Approved  13 RTC/ 8 DT # of Present 
Capacity: Residents\Clients
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes)
DACS to ensure background checks  Introduce yourself and any DHHS 
are current. staff
✔ ✔
Initial walkthrough Initial walkthrough
Any active rule variances. Clients Interviews
✔ ✔
Any license restrictions or conditions. Initial walkthrough Staff Interviews Initial walkthrough
✔
Initial walkthrough
Any needed rule variances. Other:
Inspection Information:
 - The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection 
has been approved by management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
 - If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any 
noncompliance. 
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Initial Inspection Date: 6/6/2023 Time Started On-site: 10:00 Time Ended On-site: 11:30
5 Steve Demille
Number of Non Compliant Items: Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection:
McCabe Peterson Greg Hirst
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: OL Staff Observing Inspection:
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
Steven M DeMille
✔ The Licensor explained  Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, 
noncompliance items (if any). only that the inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were 
explained. 