This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Adult Residential Treatment, Outpatient, Day treatment Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for
every inspection. (Revised 10/2023)
Provider Name: Odyssey House dba Parents with Children Facility ID: F22-95810 Phone Number: (801) 428-3479 Notes
Salt Lake acohen@odysseyhouse.org;
Site Name or
Email Address: asalot@odysseyhouse.org;
Address:
cmoore@odysseyhouse.org
Approved 16 # of Present 14
Capacity: Residents\Clients
:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes)
4 4
Current backgrounds in DACS Any active rule variances.
4 4 Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
staff
4
Any license restrictions or conditions. Staff Interviews N/A, staff in group
4 4
Any needed rule variances. Clients Interviews
Inspection Information:Annual, announced
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection
has been approved by management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any
noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Annual, announced Date: 12/22/2023 Time Started On-site: 11:00 am Time Ended On-site: 12:00 pm
2 Angie Salot
Number of Non Compliant Items: Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection:
Elizabeth Hoffmann
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: OL Staff Observing Inspection:
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
4 The Licensor explained Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, Angie Salot, 12/22/2023
noncompliance items (if any). only that the inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were
explained.