This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for
every inspection. (Revised 05/2025)
Provider Name: My Aunties' House Facility ID:101496 Phone Number: Notes
(801) 467-2863
Info@amethyst4healing.org;
Site Name or 718 South 600 East Program has two licenses at this site
Email Address: martha@amethyst4healing.org;
Address: Salt Lake City, UT, 84102 Residential treament (RT) and
amethyst4healing@gmail.com
Outpatient (OT). They are closing the RT
Approved Outpatient # of Present but will be keeping the OT at this site.
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
x Current backgrounds in DACS Any active rule variances N/A
Introduce yourself and any
x Current staff roster collected x
DHHS staff
Any license restrictions or
N/A x Staff Interviews No concerns reported
conditions
Any needed rule variances N/A N/A Clients Interviews None available
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been
approved by management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any
noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Announced Annual Date: 6/18/2025 Time Started On-site: 1:00 PM Time Ended On-site: 2:30 PM
Name of Individual Informed of this
Number of Non Compliant Items: 1 Martha Burkett Fallis
Inspection:
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Hailey Feichko OL Staff Observing Inspection: none
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
The Licensor explained
x Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only
noncompliance items (if any).
that the inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.