This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 05/2025)
Avalon Hills Healthcare Inc dba Avalon
Provider Name: Facility ID: F22-93266 Phone Number: (435) 890-0665 Notes
Hills Residential Eating Disorders
P
Site Name or 8530 S 500 W gregc@avalonhills.org,
Email Address:
Address: Paradise, UT, 84328 ir@avalonhills.org See additional information page for more
details regarding this inspection.
Approved # of Present
12 9
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Employees no longer with the program need
Current backgrounds in DACS Any active rule variances None
to be removed.
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions None Staff Interviews
Any needed rule variances None Clients Interviews
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by
management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: 3rd Unannounced Date: 6/4/2025 Time Started On-site: 2:45 PM Time Ended On-site: 4:15 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Lesle Dickey
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Josilyn Bertrand OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained
noncompliance items (if any).