This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 02/2025)
Southwest Behavioral Health Center -
Provider Name: Horizon House East Residential (RT, OT Facility ID: F23-98533 Phone Number: (435) 586-2515 Notes
& DT)
Site Name or 54 North 200 East mdeal@sbhcutah.org;
Email Address:
Address: Cedar City, UT, 84720 jdudleston@sbhcutah.org Facility walkthrough done on March 24,
2025.
Residential Treatment - 16
Approved # of Present
Day Treatment - 5 0
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Outpatient Treatment - N/A
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
x Current backgrounds in DACS x Any active rule variances No active rule variances.
x Current staff roster collected x Introduce yourself and any DHHS
staff
x Any license restrictions or conditions No license restrictions or conditions. x Staff Interviews
x Any needed rule variances No needed rule variances. x Clients Interviews
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by
management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Announced Date: 3/31/2025 Time Started On-site: 9:00 AM Time Ended On-site: 12:00 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Bill Dudleston
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Izabelle Arnold, Greg Hirst OL Staff Observing Inspection: N/A
The Licensor explained Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
x Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the John Dudleston
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.