This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 01/2024)
Provider Name: Young Women's Empowerment Center Facility ID: (F22-93717) Phone Number: (435) 340-1880 Notes
Site Name or 66 N 180 W
Email Address: admin@youngwomens.net
Address: Ephraim, UT, 84627
New renewal date of 6.30.25
Approved # of Present
12 9
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Any active rule variances None in place
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions No conditions in place Staff Interviews One staff was interviewed.
Modificatin / variance needed for confidentail
Any needed rule variances Clients Interviews Three clients were interviewed.
communication
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Announced Date: 5.12.24 Time Started On-site: 10:30 AM Time Ended On-site: 6:00
Number of Non Compliant Items: 3 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Justice Roberts
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Rob Jones OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained
noncompliance items (if any).