This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 02/2025)
Provider Name: Utah Health Operations Facility ID: F22-93701 Phone Number: 203-598-2118 Notes
christan.gillespie@newporthealthcare.
Site Name or
Newport Academy 251 W. Weber Canyon Road Oakley, Utah 84055 Email Address: com; crystal.
Address:
goodwin@newporthealthcare.com
Approved # of Present
64 50
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Not assessed during quarterly inspection x Any active rule variances No variances in place
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected Not assessed during quarterly inspection x
staff
x Any license restrictions or conditions No conditions or restrictions in place x Staff Interviews One staff interviewed
x Any needed rule variances No variances needed x Clients Interviews Three clients interviewed
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: 3rd Unannounced Date: 2/25/2025 Time Started On-site: 10:30 AM Time Ended On-site: 1:00 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 1 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Robert Owens
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Heather Holbrook OL Staff Observing Inspection:
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
The Licensor explained
x Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the Robert Owens
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.