This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 02/2025)
Provider Name: New Haven dba Anthony House Facility ID: (F22-93530) Phone Number: (801) 423-5342 Notes
jeanat@newhavenrtc.com;
Site Name or
258 W 400 N Saratoga Springs, UT, 84045 Email Address: jacob.clayton@newhavenrtc.com;
Address:
lbarlow@newhavenrtc.com
Approved # of Present
8 0
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
x Current backgrounds in DACS X Any active rule variances for medication packaging
Not assessed during quarterly inspection
X Current staff roster collected X Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Not assessed during quarterly inspection staff
home does not have
X Any license restrictions or conditions Staff Interviews 0
No conditions or restrictions in place clients.
X Any needed rule variances Clients Interviews 0
No variances needed
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by
management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Unannounced Date: 4/11/2025 Time Started On-site: 9:46 AM Time Ended On-site: 11:30 AM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: David E Mayeski
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Heather Guanajuato OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
none Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the David E Mayeski
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.