This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 05/2025)
Provider Name: Facility ID: Phone Number: Notes
New Haven dba Roosevelt House F22-93532 (801) 794-1218
jeanat@newhavenrtc.com;
Site Name or
Email Address: jacob.clayton@newhavenrtc.com;
Address:
lbarlow@newhavenrtc.com
2152 E 7200 S Spanish Fork, UT, 84660
Approved # of Present
11
Capacity: 15 Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS x Any active rule variances Medication packaging
Not assessed during quarterly inspection
Current staff roster collected x Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Not assessed during quarterly inspection staff
Any license restrictions or conditions x Staff Interviews 1
No conditions or restrictions in place
Any needed rule variances x Clients Interviews 1
No Variances needed.
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by
management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: 2nd Unannounced Date: 7/17/2025 Time Started On-site: 10:20 AM Time Ended On-site: 1:15 PM time is
between 3 programs.
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Heather Guanajuato OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained
noncompliance items (if any).