This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 01/2024)
Triumph Youth Services/Triumph
Provider Name: Facility ID: F22-93692 Phone Number: (435) 538-5061 Notes
Academy dba Expeditions
tom@triumphyouthservices.com;
Site Name or
58 S 950 W, Brigham City, UT, 84302 Email Address: michelle@triumphyouthservices.com
Address:
; bruce@triumphyouthservices.com Program does not currently have clients.
Approved # of Present
20 0
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Any active rule variances None
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions None Staff Interviews Program currently does not have clients.
Any needed rule variances None Clients Interviews Program currently does not have clients.
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by
management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: 2nd Unannounced Date: 10/16/2024 Time Started On-site: 1:30 PM Time Ended On-site:
3:30 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Tom Filipe, Bruce Humphries
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Josilyn Bertrand OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the BRUCE L HUMPHRIES 10-16-2024
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.