This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 12/2023)
Gateway Academy, LLC dba Gateway
Provider Name: Facility ID: (F22-93484) Phone Number: (801) 523-3479 Notes
House
Site Name or 941 E Cattail Dr milliebutterfield@gatewayacademy.net;
Email Address:
Address: Draper, UT, 84020 rebeccagarfield@gatewayacademy.net
License Expires 9.30.25
Approved # of Present
11 8
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Not assessed during quarterly inpsections Any active rule variances None in Place
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected Not assessed during quarterly inpsections
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions None in place Staff Interviews One staff interview completed
All clients were on home visits or
Any needed rule variances None Needed Clients Interviews
participating in parent weekend.
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: 3rd Unannounced Date: 5.8.25 Time Started On-site: 11:00 AM Time Ended On-site: 12:30 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Joshua Tao
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Rob Jones OL Staff Observing Inspection:
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
The Licensor explained
Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the Joshua Tao
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.