This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 02/2025)
Provider Name: House of Hope - Provo Facility ID: 99843 Phone Number: 801-373-6562 Notes
Site Name or lheaton@houseofhopeut.org; Licensee is going to let Day Treatment
1726 Buckley Ln Provo, UT, 84606 Email Address:
Address: lweaver@houseofhopeut.org License expire, they have not used that
license type within the last year and do not
Approved Day Treatment: 28 # of Present plan on using it for the next year.
12
Capacity: Residential Treatment: 42 Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Any active rule variances
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions none Staff Interviews
Any needed rule variances none Clients Interviews
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Announced Date: 2/12/2025 Time Started On-site: 1:00 PM Time Ended On-site: 3:00 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 1 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Lori Weaver
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Melissa Bouttavong OL Staff Observing Inspection: Stacia L Shumway, SSW
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
The Licensor explained
Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.