This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 01/2024)
Provider Name: Crossroads Academy dba North House Facility ID: F22-93420 Phone Number: (801) 689-2529 Notes
bailey@crossroadsrtc.com;
Site Name or
2849 N 400 E, Ogden, UT, 84414 Email Address: becky@crossroadsrtc.com;
Address: derek.bowles@gmail.com Program has informed OL that there are no
clients or staff currently at this facility.
Approved # of Present
14 0
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Any active rule variances None
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions None Staff Interviews Not conducted
Any needed rule variances None Clients Interviews Not conducted
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by
management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: 2nd Unannounced Date: 12/5/2024 Time Started On-site: 2:15 PM Time Ended On-site: 2:30 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Hunter Taylor
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Josilyn Bertrand OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the Hunter Taylor 12/5/2024
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.