This inspection checklist is the tool OL 
RResidentiall Treatmentt Inspectionn Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency 
for every inspection. (Revised 03/2023)
Provider Name: Alpine Academy Facility ID: F22-93241 Phone Number:  801-272-9980 Notes
CottonwoodGrove aalvey@alpineacademy.org
Site Name or 
1280WhisperingHorseDr. Email Address: cegan@alpineacademy.org
Address:
Tooele,Utah84074 lbryant@alpineacademy.org
Approved  11 # of Present  6
Capacity: Residents\Clients
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes)
DACS to ensure background checks  ✔ Introduce yourself and any DHHS 
Done at the renewal inspection
are current. staff
✔ ✔
One waiting for approval
Any active rule variances. Clients Interviews
✔ ✔
Any license restrictions or conditions. None Staff Interviews
✔
None
Any needed rule variances. Other:
Inspection Information:
 - The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection 
has been approved by management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
 - If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any 
noncompliance. 
Signature Information
Inspection Type: 3rd unannounced Date: 11/9/2023 Time Started On-site: 9:30 am Time Ended On-site:
3 Lisa Bryant
Number of Non Compliant Items: Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection:
Heather Holbrook Rob Jones
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: OL Staff Observing Inspection:
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
Lisa Bryant
✔ The Licensor explained  Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, 
noncompliance items (if any). only that the inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were 
explained. 