General Provisions - Inspection Checklist
(Revised 12/2023)
C = Compliant
NC = Not Compliant
NA = Not Assessed during this inspection
Date to be Corrected During
New and Renewal Licensing Procedures C NC NA Notes
corrected by Inspection
R380-600-3(1) An applicant or provider may not accept any fee, enter into any agreement to provide a client
x Not assessed during Quarterly Inspection
service, or provide any client service until a license or certificate is approved by the office.
R380-600-3(2) Each applicant and provider shall comply with any applicable administrative rule, statute, zoning,
fire, safety, sanitation, building and licensing laws, regulations, ordinances, and codes of the city and county in that x Not assessed during Quarterly Inspection
the facility or agency will be or is located.
R380-600-3(3) An applicant or a provider shall permit the office to have immediate, unrestricted access to:
(a) each site subject to licensing or certification;
x Not assessed during Quarterly Inspection
(b) any unaltered on and off-site program or facility and client records; and
(c) each staff and client.
R380-600-3(12) A provider approved by the office to certify their own program or facility sites shall register each
x Not assessed during Quarterly Inspection
certified site using the licensing provider portal.
R380-600-3(14) The license or certificate holder shall adhere to any individualized parameter on a program or
facility license or certificate to promote the health, safety, and welfare of any client. Parameters may include:
(a) an age restriction; x Not assessed during Quarterly Inspection
(b) an admission or placement restriction; or
(c) adequate square footage to determine capacity.
R380-600-3(23) Each license or certificate is not transferable. x Not assessed during Quarterly Inspection
Date to be Corrected During
Variances C NC NA Notes
corrected by Inspection
R380-600-6(2) The provider may not deviate from any administrative rule before receiving written approval signed
by the office director or the director's designee.
R380-600-6(5) The provider shall sign the approved variance and comply with the terms of the written variance,
including any conditions or modifications contained within the approved written variance.
Date to be Corrected During
Inspection and Investigation Process C NC NA Notes
corrected by Inspection
R380-600-7(6) The provider shall ensure that the integrity of the office's information gathering process is not
x
compromised by withholding or manipulating information or influencing any specific response of staff or clients.
R380-600-7(7) The provider shall allow the office to access any program or facility record or staff at an
x
administrative or certified location that is not located at the licensed site.
R380-600-7(16) When a critical incident occurs under the direct responsibility and supervision of the program or
facility, the licensee or certificate holder shall:
(a) submit a report of the critical incident to the office in format required by the office within one business day of
the critical incident occurrence;
(b) notify the legal guardian of each involved client within a 24-hour period from the time of the incident; x
(c) if the critical incident involves any client in the custody of the department or under contract with the
department, notify the involved department division immediately; and
(d) collect, maintain, and submit original witness statements and supporting documentation, including video
footage if available, regarding each critical incident to the office upon request.