This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 05/2025)
Provider Name: New Focus Academy Facility ID: (F22-93528) Phone Number: (844) 413-2722 Notes
brandon@newfocusacademy.com;
Site Name or 1268 N Valley Heights Cir
Email Address: john@newfocusacademy.com;
Address: Heber City, UT, 84032
awebb@newfocusacademy.com
Approved # of Present
16 12
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Not assessed during quarterly inspections. Any active rule variances None in place.
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected Not assessed during quarterly inspections.
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions None in place Staff Interviews One staff interview competed
Any needed rule variances None needed Clients Interviews Three clients completed
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: 2nd Unannounced Date: 6.5.25 Time Started On-site: 10:00 AM Time Ended On-site: 2:30 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 1 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Ronald Tuinei
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Rob Jones OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained
noncompliance items (if any).