This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for
every inspection. (Revised 08/2023)
Provider Name: Copper Hills Youth Center Facility ID: F22-93343 Phone Number: (801) 561-3377 Notes
Site Name or 5899 W Rivendell Dr ron.tuinei@uhsinc.com; Teresa.
Email Address:
Address: West Jordan, UT, 84081 Kidd@uhsinc.com
Approved # of Present
197 122
Capacity: Residents\Clients
:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes)
DACS to ensure background checks Introduce yourself and any DHHS
are current. staff
Any active rule variances. None Requested Clients Interviews 3 Client interviews
Any license restrictions or conditions. None Staff Interviews 1 staff interviews
Any needed rule variances. Other:
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection
has been approved by management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any
noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Unannounced Date: 11.14.23 Time Started On-site: 1:30 Time Ended On-site: 5:00
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Tevita Makalo
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Rob Jones OL Staff Observing Inspection:
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
The Licensor explained Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements,
TEVITA MAKALO
noncompliance items (if any). only that the inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were
explained.