This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 05/2025)
Triumph Youth Services/Triumph
Provider Name: Facility ID: F22-93692 Phone Number: (435) 538-5061 Notes
Academy dba Expeditions
tom@triumphyouthservices.com;
Site Name or 58 S 950 W
Email Address: michelle@triumphyouthservices.com
Address: Brigham City, UT, 84302
; dan@triumphyouthservices.com Facility currently does not have clients.
Approved # of Present
20 0
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Any active rule variances
Not assessed during quarterly inpections None in place
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
Not assessed during quarterly inpections staff
Any license restrictions or conditions Staff Interviews
None in place
Any needed rule variances Clients Interviews No clients current at the facility.
None needed
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by
management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Unannounced Date: 7/15/2025 Time Started On-site: 2:00 PM Time Ended On-site: 3:30 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Bruce Humphries
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Josilyn Bertrand OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained
noncompliance items (if any).