This inspection checklist is the tool OL
OOutdoorr Youthh Programm Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for
every inspection. (Revised 03/2023)
Provider Name: TherapyAssociatesDBAStarGuidesDBAStarGuidesdbaStarGuides Facility ID: F22-93688 Phone Number: Notes
377ERiversideDr OnConditionalstatusuntil
Site Name or
BldgB Email Address: 10/31/2023.Twodayinspectionwith
Address:
St.George,UT84790 onedayinthefieldandanotherin
theoffice.Totalduration:11.75hrs
Approved 42 # of Present 13
Capacity: Residents\Clients
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes)
✔ DACS to ensure background checks ✔ Introduce yourself and any DHHS
are current. staff
✔ ✔
Any active rule variances. Clients Interviews
✔ Any license restrictions or ✔
Staff Interviews
conditions.
✔ ✔
Any needed rule variances. Other:
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this
inspection has been approved by management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of
any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Renewal Inspection Date: 09/19/2023 Time Started On-site: 11:00 am Time Ended On-site: 10:45 am
21 Matt Bulkley
Number of Non Compliant Items: Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection:
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: McCabe Peterson OL Staff Observing Inspection:
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
✔ The Licensor explained Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the Matt Bulkley
noncompliance items (if any). statements, only that the inspection was conducted and
noncompliances, if any, were explained.