This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for
every inspection. (Revised 05/2024)
Odyssey House dba Parents with
Provider Name: Facility ID: F22-95810 Phone Number: (801) 428-3402 Notes
Children
Kflanders@odysseyhouse.org;
Site Name or
Salt Lake Email Address: Bshannon@odysseyhouse.com;
Audit time not included, audit completed
Address:
Etillett@odysseyhouse.com
12/4/24.
Approved # of Present
16 14
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
X Current backgrounds in DACS N/A Any active rule variances
Introduce yourself and any
X Current staff roster collected X
DHHS staff
Any license restrictions or
N/A Staff Interviews None available
conditions
N/A Any needed rule variances Clients Interviews Clients in group and not available
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved
by management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of
any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Annual, announced Date: 12/18/2024 Time Started On-site: 9:32 AM Time Ended On-site: 9:50 AM
Name of Individual Informed of this
Number of Non Compliant Items: 4 Khymm Flanders
Inspection:
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Elizabeth Hoffmann OL Staff Observing Inspection:
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
The Licensor explained
X Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only Khymm Flanders, 12/18/24
noncompliance items (if any).
that the inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.