This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 02/2025)
Provider Name: Facility ID: Phone Number: Notes
Solstice RTC LLC F22-93639 (801) 444-0794
Site Name or 1904 W Gordon Ave Email Address: Jane@solsticertc.com;
Address: Layton, UT, 84041 Herbert@solsticertc.com;
Angie@solsticertc.com
Approved # of Present
44 16
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Quarterly Inspection. Any active rule variances No active rule variances.
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions No current restrictions. Staff Interviews
Any needed rule variances No needed rule variance. Clients Interviews
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Unannounced Date: 3/25/2025 Time Started On-site: 11:00 AM Time Ended On-site: 1:15 PM
Angie Michaelson, Jane Peterson,
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection:
Herbert Kendall
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Mary Bokinskie, Josilyn Bertrand OL Staff Observing Inspection:
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
The Licensor explained
Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the Herbert Kendall 3/25/25
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.