This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 01/2024)
Provider Name: Second Nature Therapeutic Program Facility ID: F22-93635 Phone Number: (435) 738-2040 Notes
Site Name or 382 W Main mattieo@second-nature.com;
Email Address:
Address: Duchesne, UT, 84021 judyw@second-nature.com
Exp. Date 6.30.24
Approved # of Present
60 13
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes)
Modification for voice to voice
Current backgrounds in DACS Any active rule variances
commubnication is in effect
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions No Conditions in Place Staff Interviews One Staff Interview Completed
Any needed rule variances No Variances Needed Clients Interviews Three Client Interviews Completed
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Announced Date: 5.22.24 Time Started On-site: 10:00 AM Time Ended On-site: 5:15 AM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Alea Clymer
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Rob Jones OL Staff Observing Inspection: Heather Holbrook
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
The Licensor explained
Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the Alea Clymer
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.