This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 05/2025)
Provider Name: Facility ID: Phone Number: Notes
Youth Health Associates F23-104399 (801) 710-0474
Site Name or Bridges Academy- 387 E 450 So. Email Address: jenglish@yhautah.com;
Address: Clearfield, UT, 84015 mriddle@yhautah.com;
mcorrigan@yhautah.com
Approved # of Present
12 8
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Any active rule variances No active rule variances.
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions No current restrictions. Staff Interviews
Any needed rule variances No needed rule variance. Clients Interviews
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Announced Date: 6/19/2025 Time Started On-site: 9:00 AM Time Ended On-site: 4:30 AM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 1 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Monie Riddle; Jason English
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Mary Bokinskie; Josilyn Bertrand OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained noncompliance items (if any).