This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 01/2024)
Provider Name: Facility ID: Phone Number: Notes
New Haven - Anthony House F22-93530 (801) 794-1220
Site Name or
258 W 400 N Saratoga Springs, UT, 84045 Email Address:
Address:
jeanat@newhavenrtc.com
Approved # of Present
8 8
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Not assessed during quarterly inspection Any active rule variances Variance in place for medication
repackaging.
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected Not assessed during quarterly inspection
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions No conditions or restrictions in place Staff Interviews One staff interviewed
Any needed rule variances Clients Interviews Clients were interviewed
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by
management. Only items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: 2nd Unannounced Date: 8/23/2024 Time Started On-site: 2:00 PM Time Ended On-site: 3:00 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection:
Kylie Waters
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Kacee Arrington OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the Kylie Waters
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.