This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 05/2025)
Provider Name: New Beginnings Behavioral Health Facility ID: (F22-93527) Phone Number: (702) 813-8301 Notes
femia@newbeginningslv.org;
Site Name or 217 E Scenic Peak Cove Licensor addressed licensee noncompliance
Email Address: cherlyta@newbeginningslv.org;
Address: Draper, UT, 84020 from section R501-14. There four
cedric@newbeginningslv.org
noncompliances from R501-14-5(2)(a), and
Approved # of Present one for R501-14-4(3)(b).
16 10
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make any necessary notes)
Current backgrounds in DACS Dacs asssessed for follow up inspection Any active rule variances Medication Storgae Variance
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions No restrictions in place. Staff Interviews One staff interviewed
Any needed rule variances None needed Clients Interviews Three clients
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: 2nd Unannounced Date: 5.30.25 Time Started On-site: 11:00 AM Time Ended On-site: 1:30 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 7 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Elizabeth Sanders
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Rob Jones OL Staff Observing Inspection:
The Licensor explained
noncompliance items (if any).