This inspection checklist is the tool OL
Inspection Checklist licensors use to ensure consistency for every
inspection. (Revised 01/2024)
Provider Name: Eva Carlston Facility ID: F22-93416 Phone Number: 801-449-0089 Notes
Site Name or kristi@evacarlston.com;
Covecrest House 4464 So. Covecrest Dr. SLC, Utah 84124 Email Address: Clients are on fall break and were off campus
Address: sue@evacarlston.com
with staff. Clients at the Vivid home were
interviewed this quarter.
Approved # of Present
16 10
Capacity: Residents\Clients:
Please review the following items prior to the inspection: Please review the following items during the inspection:
(Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes) (Mark with a check mark if completed and make and necessary notes)
18 year old who hadn't been enrolled 30
Current backgrounds in DACS Not assessed during quarterly inspection Any active rule variances
days prior to their 18th birthday
Introduce yourself and any DHHS
Current staff roster collected Not assessed during quarterly inspection
staff
Any license restrictions or conditions No conditions or restrictions in place Staff Interviews One staff interviewed
Any needed rule variances No variances needed Clients Interviews Three clients interviewed
Inspection Information:
- The licensor will email you this inspection checklist after the inspection is completed. This checklist is not an official compliance statement. The licensor will send you an official Inspection Report once this inspection has been approved by management. Only
items checked here as noncompliant can be part of your Inspection Report, and the Inspection Report is to be considered the results of this inspection.
- If the only non compliance items are documentation and/or records, please submit them by the correction required date listed. A licensor may conduct a follow-up inspection to verify compliance and maintenance of any noncompliance.
Signature Information
Inspection Type: Unannounced Date: 9/5/2024 Time Started On-site: 10:00 AM Time Ended On-site: 12:00 PM
Number of Non Compliant Items: 0 Name of Individual Informed of this Inspection: Kristy Ragsdale
Licensor(s) Conducting this Inspection: Heather Holbrook OL Staff Observing Inspection: Heather G.
Please sign/type individual informed name and date of review:
The Licensor explained
Signing this checklist does not constitute agreement with the statements, only that the Kristy Ragsdale
noncompliance items (if any).
inspection was conducted and noncompliances, if any, were explained.